Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, which are included in the 2020 Form 10-K and our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2021 included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed below or elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. See Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of the 2020 Form 10-K. Executive Overview ON Semiconductor Overview ON Semiconductor is driving innovation in energy-efficient electronics. We believe that our extensive portfolio of sensors, power management, connectivity, custom and SoC, analog, logic, timing and discrete devices helps customers efficiently solve their design challenges in advanced electronic systems and products. Our power management and motor driver semiconductor components control, convert, protect and monitor the supply of power to the different elements within a wide variety of electronic devices. Our ASICs and SoC devices use analog, MCU, DSP, mixed-signal and advanced logic capabilities to enable the application and uses of many of our automotive, consumer and industrial customers products. Our signal management semiconductor components provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing, communications and industrial systems. Our portfolio of sensors, including image sensors, radar and LiDAR, provides advanced solutions for automotive, industrial and IoT applications. Our high performance Wi-Fi solution creates a strong platform for addressing connectivity solutions for industrial IoT applications. Our standard semiconductor components serve as building blocks within virtually all types of electronic devices. We serve a broad base of end-user markets, including automotive, communications, computing, consumer, and industrial. Our portfolio of devices, which are found in a wide variety of end-products enables us to offer advanced ICs and the "building block" components that deliver system-level functionality and design solutions. We offer micro packages, which provide increased performance characteristics while reducing the critical board space inside today's ever-shrinking electronic devices and power modules, delivering improved energy efficiency and reliability for a wide variety of medium and high power applications. We shipped approximately 17.5 billion units during the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to 15.4 billion units during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, resulting in a period-over-period increase of approximately 14%. As of April 2, 2021, we were organized into the following three operating and reportable segments: PSG, ASG and ISG. Business Strategy Developments Our primary focus continues to be on gross margin expansion, while at the same time achieving significant revenue growth in our focused end-markets of automotive, industrial and communications infrastructure as well as being opportunistic in other end-markets. We began the process of evaluating our current product portfolio during the first quarter of 2021 and continue to make progress in such efforts. We have allocated capital, research and development investments and resources to accelerate growth in high-margin products and end-markets by moving away from non-differentiated products, which have had historically lower gross margins. We believe these actions, among others, will also allow us to transition to a lighter internal fabrication model where our gross margins will be less volatile and not as heavily influenced by our internal manufacturing volumes. We are also rationalizing our manufacturing footprint to align with our investment priorities and corporate strategy. Our goal is to reduce volatility in our gross margins and maximize return on our manufacturing investments with the intention of having our product strategy drive our manufacturing footprint and capital investments. On March 4, 2021, as part of our ongoing efforts to realign investments to focus on growth drivers and key markets and to streamline our operations, we announced our plans to implement the ISP during the first half of 2021. The Company expects that the ISP will impact approximately 740 employees, resulting in estimated severance charges and other benefits between $58.0 million and $62.0 million during this period. During the first quarter of 2021, we notified more than half of the impacted employees and incurred severance charges under the ISP of $33.0 million. We expect to notify the remaining employees and incur the corresponding severance charges during the second quarter of 2021. 22 Table of Contents Impact of the Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic on our Business The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a significant volatility in global economic activity. As a result, we have experienced volatility in the end-markets in which we do business due to fluctuations in consumer and business spending, which, in-turn, had an impact on the demand for some of our products. The severity and duration of these economic repercussions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including any resulting impact on our business, remain largely unknown and will depend on many factors. In response to business and industry trends, we have proactively implemented preventative protocols, which we continuously assess and update for current local conditions and emerging trends. These steps are intended to safeguard our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and communities, and to ensure business continuity in case of further government restrictions or if severe outbreaks impact operations at certain of our facilities. While all of our global manufacturing sites are currently operational, our facilities could be required to temporarily curtail production levels or temporarily cease operations based on government mandates in response to further outbreaks. The ultimate extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact demand for our products depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including the effectiveness and utilization of vaccines for COVID-19 and its variants, new information that may emerge concerning the severity and longevity of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts undertaken by various governments to contain the spread of COVID-19 and its variants. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations Quarter Ended April 2, 2021 compared to the Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements (in millions): Quarters Ended April 2, 2021 April 3, 2020 Dollar Change Revenue $ 1,481.7 $ 1,277.9 $ 203.8 Cost of revenue (exclusive of amortization shown below) 960.5 875.2 85.3 Gross profit 521.2 402.7 118.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 173.6 171.0 2.6 Selling and marketing 78.9 76.8 2.1 General and administrative 72.4 71.2 1.2 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 25.0 32.3 (7.3) Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net 42.5 32.8 9.7 Intangible asset impairment 2.9 2.9 Total operating expenses 395.3 384.1 11.2 Operating income 125.9 18.6 107.3 Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (33.4) (42.5) 9.1 Interest income 0.4 1.9 (1.5) Other income 4.5 0.1 4.4 Other income (expense), net (28.5) (40.5) 12.0 Income (loss) before income taxes 97.4 (21.9) 119.3 Income tax (provision) benefit (7.1) 8.2 (15.3) Net income (loss) 90.3 (13.7) 104.0 Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (0.4) (0.3) (0.1) Net income (loss) attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 89.9 $ (14.0) $ 103.9 Revenue Revenue was $1,481.7 million and $1,277.9 million for the quarters ended April 2, 2021 and April 3, 2020, respectively, representing an increase of $203.8 million, or approximately 16%. We had one customer, a distributor, whose revenue accounted for approximately 10.6% of the total revenue for the quarter ended April 2, 2021. Revenue by operating and reportable segments was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 2, 2021 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 As a % of Total Revenue (1) PSG $ 747.0 50.4 % $ 623.9 48.8 % ASG 531.5 35.9 % 467.1 36.6 % ISG 203.2 13.7 % 186.9 14.6 % Total revenue $ 1,481.7 $ 1,277.9 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Revenue from PSG increased by $123.1 million, or approximately 20%, for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The revenue from our Advanced Power Division and our Protection, Signal and Integrated Circuits Division increased by $71.2 million and $51.9 million, respectively, due to improving economic conditions resulting in 24 Table of Contents significantly increased demand for our products compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2020. During the first quarter of 2020, we experienced delays in fulfilling certain customer orders due to supply chain constraints and certain of our factories operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, neither of which were experienced during the first quarter of 2021. Revenue from ASG increased by $64.4 million, or approximately 14%, for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The revenue from our Mobile, Computing and Cloud Division, Industrial and Offline Power Division and Automotive Division increased by $37.3 million, $22.4 million and $19.7 million, respectively, which was partially offset by a decrease of $15.0 million in our Wireless Connectivity Solutions Division. The increases were primarily due to increased demand for our products in various end-markets due to improving economic conditions. Additionally, as discussed above, during the first quarter of 2020, we experienced delays in fulfilling certain customer orders due to supply chain constraints and certain of our factories operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, none of which were experienced during the first quarter of 2021. Revenue from ISG increased by $16.3 million, or approximately 9%, for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The revenue from our Automotive Sensing Division increased by $14.0 million due to the significant improvement of economic conditions, specifically with automotive component manufacturers and the automotive industry overall, resulting in increased demand for these products. Revenue by geographic location, based on sales billed from the respective country or regions, was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 2, 2021 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Singapore $ 509.0 34.4 % $ 408.3 32.0 % Hong Kong 342.2 23.1 % 316.2 24.7 % United Kingdom 268.9 18.1 % 227.0 17.8 % United States 184.3 12.4 % 184.5 14.4 % Other 177.3 12.0 % 141.9 11.1 % Total $ 1,481.7 $ 1,277.9 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Gross Profit and Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets) Our gross profit by operating and reportable segments was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 2, 2021 As a % of Segment Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 (2) As a % of Segment Revenue (1) PSG $ 246.5 33.0 % $ 182.6 29.3 % ASG 206.8 38.9 % 157.8 33.8 % ISG 67.9 33.4 % 62.3 33.3 % Total gross profit $ 521.2 $ 402.7 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. (2) Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, unallocated manufacturing costs were included as part of segment operating results to determine segment gross profit. As a result, the prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation. Our gross profit increased by $118.5 million, or approximately 29%, from $402.7 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 to $521.2 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021. Our overall gross margin increased to 35.2% for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 from 31.5% for the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The favorable economic environment and significant improvement in demand from automotive component manufacturers and the automotive industry overall contributed to increased demand for our products. The increase in gross profit and gross margin was due to an increase in sales volume, increased utilization and a better mix in the portfolio of products sold. Also, during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, we recorded approximately $20 million of fixed overhead charges to cost of revenues, representing 25 Table of Contents under-absorbed inventory costs, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which adversely impacted our gross margin for that period. Operating Expenses Research and development expenses were $173.6 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $171.0 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, representing an increase of $2.6 million, or approximately 2%. The decrease in payroll expenses resulting from restructuring actions undertaken during 2020 was offset by an increase in variable compensation recorded during the quarter ended April 2, 2021. Selling and marketing expenses were $78.9 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $76.8 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, representing an increase of $2.1 million, or approximately 3%. The decrease in travel-related expenses due to travel restrictions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic was offset by an increase in variable compensation recorded during the quarter ended April 2, 2021. General and administrative expenses were $72.4 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $71.2 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, representing an increase of $1.2 million, or approximately 2%. The decrease in the use of external consultants and travel-related expenses was offset by an increase in variable compensation recorded during the quarter ended April 2, 2021. Other Operating Expenses Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $25.0 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $32.3 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, representing a decrease of $7.3 million, or approximately 23%. The decrease in expense was primarily due to full amortization of certain of our technology-related assets from our previous acquisitions during 2020. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net was $42.5 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $32.8 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The increase was primarily due to certain exit charges and costs relating to the ISP announced during the first quarter of 2021. The expense during the first quarter of 2020 related primarily to the voluntary separation program announced during that quarter. For additional information, see Note 4: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $9.1 million to $33.4 million during the quarter ended April 2, 2021, as compared to $42.5 million during the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in the one month LIBO Rate. Our average gross long-term debt balance (including current maturities) for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 was $3,512.5 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.8%, as compared to $4,303.3 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.9% for the quarter ended April 3, 2020. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased by $4.4 million to income of $4.5 million for the quarter ended April 2, 2021, compared to income of $0.1 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020. The increase was primarily due to the fluctuations in foreign currencies resulting in increased transaction gains offset by losses on hedges that were realized. Income Tax Provision and Benefit We recorded an income tax provision of $7.1 million and an income tax benefit of $8.2 million during the quarters ended April 2, 2021 and April 3, 2020, respectively. The income tax provision for the quarter ended April 2, 2021 consisted primarily of a provision of $17.8 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, partially offset by discrete benefits of $4.0 million relating to uncertain tax positions, $4.2 million relating to net equity award windfalls and $2.5 million of other discrete benefits. 26 Table of Contents The income tax benefit for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 consisted primarily of a benefit of $8.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, partially offset by $0.2 million of discrete expenses. For additional information, see Note 12: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Liquidity and Capital Resources This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, off-balance sheet arrangements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Contractual Obligations As of April 2, 2021, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations table, including the notes thereto, contained in the 2020 Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties in connection with certain transactions, including, but not limited to: material purchase commitments, agreements to mitigate collection risk, leases, utilities or customs guarantees. As of April 2, 2021, our Revolving Credit Facility included $15.0 million of commitment for the issuance of letters of credit subject to the available balance of the Revolving Credit Facility. There were $0.9 million letters of credit outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility as of April 2, 2021, which reduced our borrowing capacity dollar-for-dollar. As of April 2, 2021, we also had outstanding guarantees and letters of credit outside of our Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $8.6 million. As part of securing financing in the ordinary course of business, we have issued guarantees related to certain of our subsidiaries, which totaled $0.9 million as of April 2, 2021. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe that we will not be required to make payments under the standby letters of credit or guarantee arrangements for the foreseeable future. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these letters of credit and guarantee arrangements. See Note 6: ''Long-Term Debt'' and Note 9: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Contingencies We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other parties against losses due to IP infringement, environmental contamination and other property damage, personal injury, our failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct or our breach of representations, warranties or covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damage, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. We maintain directors and officers insurance policies that indemnify our directors and officers against various liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Exchange Act, that might be incurred by any director or officer in his or her capacity as such. The agreement and plan of merger relating to the acquisition of Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc. (the "Fairchild Agreement") provides for indemnification and insurance rights in favor of Fairchilds then-current and former directors, officers and employees. Specifically, we have agreed that, for no fewer than six years following the Fairchild acquisition, we will: (a) indemnify and hold harmless each such indemnitee against losses and expenses (including advancement of attorneys fees and expenses) in connection with any proceeding asserted against the indemnified party in connection with such persons 27 Table of Contents serving as a director, officer, employee or other fiduciary of Fairchild or its subsidiaries prior to the effective time of the acquisition; (b) maintain in effect all provisions of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries or any other agreements of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries with any indemnified party regarding elimination of liability, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses in existence on the date of the Fairchild Agreement for acts or omissions occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition; and (c) subject to certain qualifications, provide to Fairchilds then-current directors and officers an insurance and indemnification policy that provides coverage for events occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition that is no less favorable than Fairchilds then-existing policy, or, if insurance coverage that is no less favorable is unavailable, the best available coverage. Similarly, the agreement and plan of merger relating to the acquisition of Quantenna (the "Quantenna Agreement") provides for indemnification and insurance rights in favor of Quantennas then-current and former directors, officers, employees and agents. Specifically, the Company has agreed that, for no fewer than six years following the Quantenna acquisition, the Company will: (a) indemnify and hold harmless each such indemnified party to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law in the event of any threatened or actual claim, suit, action, proceeding or investigation against the indemnified party based in whole or in part on, or pertaining to, such persons serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of Quantenna or its subsidiaries or predecessors prior to the effective time of the acquisition or in connection with the Quantenna Agreement; (b) maintain in effect provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Quantenna and each of its subsidiaries regarding the elimination of liability of directors and indemnification of officers, directors and employees that are no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions in the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Quantenna and each of its subsidiaries in existence on the date of the Quantenna Agreement; and (c) obtain and fully pay the premium for a non-cancelable extension of directors and officers liability coverage of Quantennas directors and officers policies and Quantennas fiduciary liability insurance policies in effect as of the date of the Quantenna Agreement. While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations, and under such agreements, it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 9: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements under the heading "Legal Matters" included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also Part I, Item 1 "Business - Government Regulation" of the 2020 Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. Sources and Uses of Cash Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,042.5 million as of April 2, 2021. We require cash to: (i) fund our operating expenses, working capital requirements, outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments; (ii) service our debt, including principal and interest; (iii) conduct research and development; (iv) make capital expenditures; and (v) repurchase our common stock. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements through cash generated from operations and with cash and cash equivalents on hand. We also have the ability to utilize our Revolving Credit Facility, which has $1,419.0 million available for future borrowings. We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: Geopolitical and macroeconomic factors caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has had, and is expected to continue to have, negative impacts on the economies of the majority of countries and industries. The ultimate effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of various governmental entities and industries thereto, the duration and severity and the possibility of the re-emergence of the pandemic in future months and the anticipated recovery period are uncertain. Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows include the impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in demand for our products, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pricing pressures, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost 28 Table of Contents efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business. Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, include interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. Our ability to service our long-term debt, including the 3.875% Notes, 1.625% Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan "B" Facility, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, timing of the full economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some or all of which may be beyond our control. If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer-term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available when we access the capital markets or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed towards manufacturing equipment. Our capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. For example, during the quarter ended April 2, 2021, we paid $77.0 million for capital expenditures, while during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, we paid $132.3 million for capital expenditures. Our current minimum contractual capital expenditure commitment for the remainder of 2021 and 2022 and thereafter is approximately $57.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively. We expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately 7% to 8% of annual revenue for the remainder of 2021. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. Primary Cash Flow Sources Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operating activities were $218.5 million and $166.0 million for the quarters ended April 2, 2021 and April 3, 2020, respectively. The increase of $52.5 million was primarily attributable to a significant increase in net income due to increased demand for our products during the first quarter of 2021, partially offset by further investments in working capital to meet future demand. Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows, and each of these components is discussed below. Working Capital Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $951.8 million as of April 2, 2021 and has fluctuated between $1,057.1 million and $879.3 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $1,457.6 million as of April 2, 2021 and has fluctuated between $2,379.8 million and $1,071.4 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. The significant fluctuation was due to the withdrawal and repayment on our Revolving Credit Facility during 2020 as well as the reclassification of the 1.625% Notes as a current liability. During the quarter ended April 2, 2021, our working capital was positively impacted by reduced capital expenditures. We expect to pay a significant portion of the severance obligations incurred in connection with the ISP during the second quarter of 2021. 29 Table of Contents Long-Term Assets and Liabilities Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred taxes and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We have taken certain measures to add manufacturing capacity in connection with the expected completion of the acquisition of the East Fishkill, New York fabrication facilities and certain related assets and liabilities on or around December 31, 2022. Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt and deferred taxes, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans, operating lease liabilities, and contingent tax reserves. With regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. For additional information, see Note 5: ''Balance Sheet Information and Other'' and Note 12: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Key Financing and Capital Events Overview For the past several years, we have undertaken various measures to secure liquidity to pursue acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. Cash Management Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms for new products. Debt Guarantees and Related Covenants As of April 2, 2021, we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 3.875% Notes and 1.625% Notes and with covenants relating to our Term Loan B Facility and Revolving Credit Facility. The 3.875% Notes and 1.625% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of ON Semiconductor and its guarantor subsidiaries, rank equally in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior debt and, as unsecured obligations, are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see our 2020 Form 10-K and Note 3: "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.