Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. See also Note 20: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information and recent developments. Completed Mergers and Acquisitions On July 15, 2015, we completed the purchase of AXSEM, whereby AXSEM became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this transaction was approximately $8.0 million in cash consideration, plus an additional unlimited contingent consideration with a fair value of $5.0 million as of the acquisition date. We believe the acquisition of AXSEM expands the Companys industrial and timing business and is another step forward in expanding the Companys presence in select segments of the industrial end-market. See Note 4: Acquisitions of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. On August 15, 2014, we completed the purchase of Aptina, whereby Aptina became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this transaction was approximately $405.4 million in cash, subject to customary closing adjustments. We believe the acquisition of Aptina expands our image sensor business and 8 Table of Contents establishes ON Semiconductor as one of the leaders in the fast growing segment of image sensors in the automotive and industrial end-markets. See Note 4: Acquisitions of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. On April 30, 2014, we completed the purchase of Truesense, whereby Truesense became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this transaction was approximately $95.7 million, subject to customary closing adjustments. We believe that the acquisition of Truesense strengthens our product portfolio targeting industrial end-markets such as machine vision, surveillance and intelligent transportation systems by complementing our existing high-speed, high-resolution, power-efficient image sensing solutions with Truesenses high-performance image sensors for low-light, low-noise. See Note 4: Acquisitions of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. On February 27, 2011, we acquired 100% of the CMOS ISBU from Cypress Semiconductor for $34.1 million in cash. The ISBU includes a portfolio of custom and standard image sensors used in multi-megapixel machine vision, linear and two dimensional bar code imaging, medical x-ray imaging, biometrics, digital photography and cinematography, and aerospace applications. The acquired products include the VITA, LUPA, STAR, and IBIS families. On January 1, 2011, we paid SANYO Electric $142.1 million in cash and issued a $377.5 million note payable to SANYO Electric, through SCI LLC, in exchange for a 100% interest in SANYO Semiconductor and certain other semiconductor related assets held by SANYO Electric. In the second quarter of 2011, we received approximately $39.7 million in cash from SANYO Electric for working capital and pension adjustments as determined in accordance with the purchase agreement, which resulted in a net purchase price of $479.9 million. The acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor provided us with a stronger market presence in Japan, with many leading Japan-based customers, some of which were previously our customers. We believe that this acquisition has provided and will continue to provide us with access to market-leading Japanese and Asian customers, while providing our System Solutions Groups customers with access to front-end mixed-signal and analog manufacturing, and ultra high volume back-end facilities. Since acquiring SANYO Semiconductor in 2011, we have incurred material restructuring expenses to achieve cost savings in order to align the System Solutions Groups cost structure with expected revenue levels as the System Solutions Group experienced revenue and financial performance declines which were greater than our expectations and greater than cyclical declines in our other operating segments. These revenue declines were at least partially attributable to the impact from the October 2011 Thailand flood, a softening of the Japanese consumer market and, to a lesser extent, political tensions between Japan and China. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Operating Expenses under the heading Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net and in Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information on our System Solutions Group restructuring activities. Products and Technology The following provides certain information regarding our operating segments. See Business Overview above and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for other information regarding our segments and their revenues and property, plant and equipment and the income derived therefrom. 9 Table of Contents Application Products Group The Application Products Group designs and develops analog, mixed-signal and advanced logic ASIC and ASSP solutions for a broad base of end-users in the automotive, consumer electronics, computing, industrial, communications, medical and military / aerospace markets. Our product solutions enable industry leading active mode and standby mode efficiency now being demanded by regulatory agencies around the world. Additionally, the Application Products Group offers Trusted Foundry, Trusted Design, and manufacturing services, and IPD products technology, which leverage the Companys broad range of manufacturing, IC design, packaging and silicon technology offerings to provide flexible turn-key solutions for our customers. Certain of the Application Products Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: End-Market Certain Focused Products and Solutions Automotive electronics Energy efficient solutions that reduce emissions, improve fuel economy and safety, enhance lighting, and make possible an improved driving experience. Computing Solutions for a wide range of voltage and current options ranging from multi-phase 30 volt power for VCORE processors to single cell battery point of load. Thermal and battery charging solutions are also supported. Industrial electronics Power efficient communication and sensor interface products. Wired and low power RF wireless connectivity for IoT applications. Circuit breaking products for applications. FDA-compliant assembly and packaging manufacturing services. Communications Power management products that allow lowest possible current consumption at high efficiency, RF tuning to enhance radio performance. Image Sensor Group The Image Sensor Group designs and develops CMOS and CCD image sensors, as well as proximity sensors and image signal processors for a broad base of end-users in the automotive, industrial, consumer electronics, wireless, medical, and military\aerospace markets. Our broad product offering delivers excellent pixel performance, sensor functionality and camera systems capabilities to a world going more visual. With our high-quality imaging portfolio, camera system and applications expertise, our customers can deliver new and differentiated imaging solutions to their end-markets. Certain of the Image Sensor Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: End-Market Certain Focused Products and Solutions Automotive imaging High dynamic range, low-light, fast video frame rates with near-IR sensitivity for scene viewing to dramatically reduce injuries and help eliminate backover fatalities, and scene understanding for ADAS to improve safety and the overall driving experience. Industrial Imaging A broad range of both CMOS and CCD image sensors for aerial surveillance, intelligent traffic systems, Internet protocol cameras, one dimensional light and proximity sensor modules and emerging applications in the IoT market for security and surveillance, smart home, lighting, industrial automation and smart cities. Wireless and Consumer Electronics A broad range of CMOS sensors for high performance mobile phones, PCs, tablets and high-speed video camera, and various unique consumer applications. Our solutions offer superior image quality, fast frame rates, high definition, and low light sensitivity to provide customers with a compelling visual experience. 10 Table of Contents Standard Products Group The Standard Products Group offers a wide array of discrete and integrated semiconductor products that perform multiple application functions, including power switching, signal conditioning, circuit protection, signal amplification and voltage reference functions. The trends driving growth within our end-user markets are primarily the demand for greater functionality in small hand-held devices, faster data transmission rates in all communications applications and higher efficiency in all power applications. The proliferation of electronic content in automobiles has induced tremendous stress on the existing 12 volt electrical infrastructure. Power efficiency and exceptionally low power drain modes have now become a critical automotive issue as more and more electronic features exist. The new technologies being developed to support these market trends include lower capacitance protection and integrated signal conditioning products to support faster data transmission rates, micro packages for multiple hand-held applications and switching and rectification technologies that allow for high-efficiency energy usage and conversion. Certain of the Standard Product Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: End-Market Certain Focused Products and Solutions Automotive electronics Over 4,000 products AEC qualified. Known Good Die to support automotive modules. Precision OpAmps to support rapid growth in sensors. A battery free wireless sensor solution for occupant detection, HVAC control, fluid level and vehicle leak monitoring. Auto grade EEPROMs to support Imaging. FS IGBT and HE FETs, PIMs and eFuse to support proliferation of electric motors. Protection devices to support growing number of interface standards used in automotive. LED drivers and MV FETs to support rapid growth of LED lighting in both AFS and ambiance. Computing MOSFETs and protection devices supporting latest chipsets. Multichip power solutions and advanced LDOs to support power efficiency requirements in new computing platforms. GaN technology enables drastic reduction in power adaptor size. Industrial electronics Focused on advanced power technologies to support high performance power conversion for high-end power supply/UPS, alternative energy, industrial motors. Latest technologies include: HV FETs, FS IGBTs, PIMs, Gate Drivers, GaN, and HV LDOs. A battery free wireless sensor solution for moisture, temperature, pressure and proximity detection to meet the rapidly growing needs of IoT. Wireless Communications Continue to introduce worlds smallest packages: DFN MOSFETs, Chip Scale Package, EEPROMs and LDOs, DFN 01005 for small signal devices and protection. Low capacitance ESD and common mode filters for high speed serial interface protection. High PSRR LDOs for clean power rails and low power LDOs for increased efficiency. Precision OpAmps to support proliferation of sensors and CSP EEPROMs to facilitate storage of security information. GaN technology enables significant reduction in power adaptor size. 11 Table of Contents System Solutions Group Our System Solutions Group designs and develops analog and mixed signal ICs, DSPs, analog and digital tuners, intelligent power modules, memory and discrete semiconductors for the automotive, communications, consumer and industrial end-markets. The continuing transformation to make all electronics systems smart, connected and more power efficient presents a substantial opportunity to draw on our diverse product portfolio and applications expertise to provide customers with comprehensive systems solutions for their applications. We further possess unique packaging capabilities that help customers reduce device size, weight and improve power efficiency as more semiconductor content is incorporated into electronics systems and device dimensions shrink to increase portability. These advanced packaging capabilities allow us to provide complete, fully tested solutions resulting in faster time to market for our customers. Certain of the System Solutions Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: End-Market Certain Focused Products and Solutions Wireless Communications Auto Focus and optical image stabilizer ICs improve the picture quality of smartphones; our power management ASSPs reduce the charging time and extend battery life of Lithium-ion Batteries, as well as help to power todays high efficiency displays. Our original IP can be found in ASICs such as our new touch and pen interface solutions that reduce power consumption and increase hand writing accuracy in tablets. Consumer We provide a full range of discrete products, ASSPs and IPMs for home appliances. Our products provide improved power management and help to increase the power efficiency of a wide range of motors. Various power efficient audio solutions for a wide range of portable consumer & automotive applications including SoCs for the next generation wearable applications. Automotive Innovative solutions that reduce size and weight: our strength and expertise in smart motor control solutions, including our IPMs enable simple and low cost design for BLDC motors used in fans and pumps (examples: EPS, wiper, oil & water pumps, radiator fan, sliding doors, fuel pump and HVAC fan). Ignition control ASSPs that reduce adoption cycle time for OEMs for fuel efficient engines. Industrial Broad portfolio of power solutions including smart motor drivers, MOSFETs, IGBTs and Intelligent Power Modules. Customers In general, we have maintained long-term relationships with our key customers. Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain certain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require minimum purchase commitments. Most of our OEM customers negotiate pricing terms with us on an annual basis near the end of the calendar year, while our other customers, including electronic manufacturer service providers and distributors, generally negotiate pricing terms with us on a quarterly basis. Our products are ultimately purchased for use in a variety of end-markets, including computing, automotive electronics, consumer electronics, industrial electronics, wireless communications, networking, military aerospace and medical. For the years ended December 31, 2015, December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, we had no sales to individual customers, including distributors, that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. 12 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2015, aggregate revenue from our five largest customers per segment, including distributors, for our Application Products Group, Image Sensor Group, Standard Products Group, and System Solutions Group comprised approximately 29% , 59%, 43%, and 51% of total revenue for each respective operating segment. The loss of certain of these customers or distributors may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the respective segment. We generally warrant that products sold to our customers will, at the time of shipment, be free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain exceptions, our standard warranty extends for a period of two years. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days prior to shipment for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. For additional information regarding agreements with our customers, see Backlog below. 13 Table of Contents End-Markets for Our Products The following table sets forth our principal end-markets, the estimated percentage (based in part on information provided by our distributors and electronic manufacturing service providers) of our revenues generated from each end-market during 2015, sample applications for our products and representative OEM customers and end-users. Computing Consumer Electronics Automotive Electronics Industrial Electronics Communications Networking Military - Aerospace Medical Approximate percentage of 2015 Revenue 12% 14% 33% 19% 15% 3% 1% 3% Sample applications Notebooks, Ultrabooks, & 2-in-1s Music Players, Digital Cameras & Video Recorders Fuel Economy & Emission Reduction Smart Grid & Metering Tablets Switches Cockpit Displays Hearing Devices Desktop PCs & All-in-Ones Flat TVs & Set-Top Boxes Active Safety (ADAS and Viewing Cameras) Security & Surveillance Smart phones Routers Guidance Systems Imaging Graphics Gaming & Home Entertainment Systems Body Electronics & Lighting Motor Controls Wearables Devices Base Stations Infrared Imaging Diagnostic, Therapy, & Monitoring Servers & Workstations White Goods Infotainment & Connectivity Smart Buildings Back lighting & Display Control Network Cards Image Sensors Implantable Devices Internal & External Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies PC Cameras Drones Industrial Automation RF Tuning Drones Representative OEM customers and end-users Apple Inc. GoPro, Inc. Bosch GMBH Dahua Technology Apple Inc. Alcatel Lucent Aeroflex Boston Scientific Asus Gree, Inc. Continental Automotive Systems Delta Electronics Huawei Tech Co., Ltd. Cisco British Aerospace General Electric Co Dell Computer LG Electronics Delphi Emerson Electric Co Lenovo Delta Electronics General Electric Co. Intricon Corp Delta Electronics, Inc. Microsoft Denso Corporation Flir Systems LG Eletronics Ericsson Honeywell Inc Medtronic Foxconn Midea Fujitsu Ten LTD Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Huawei ITT Corporation Mindray Gigabyte Panasonic Corporation Hella Honeywell Inc. Sony Mobile Nokia Solutions and Networks L-3 Communications Philips Hewlett Packard Co Philips Hyundai Mobis Co., Ltd. Kionix INC Xiaomi Inc. ZTE Hong Kong LTD Lockheed Martin St. Jude Medical Lenovo Samsung Electronics Magna International Schneider Electric ZTE Hong Kong Ltd Apple Inc. Raytheon Co Starkey Laboratories Seagate Technology Sony Corp Magneti Marelli Siemens Industrial Rockwell Collins Western Digital Corporation Whirlpool Corp TRW Inc Tyco International Sofradir Valeo Visteon 14 Table of Contents OEMs Direct sales to OEMs accounted for approximately 39% of our revenues in 2015, 42% of our revenues in 2014 and 48% of our revenues in 2013. OEM customers include a variety of companies in the electronics industry such as Continental Automotive Systems, Delphi, Hella, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Magna International, Panasonic Corporation and Samsung Electronics. We focus on three types of OEMs: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. Large multi-nationals and selected regional accounts, which are significant in specific markets, are our core OEM customers. The target market customers for our end-markets are OEMs that are on the leading edge of specific technologies and provide direction for technology and new product development. Generally, our OEM customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to our standard warranty. Distributors Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 54% of our revenues in 2015, 50% of our revenues in 2014 and 44% of our revenues in 2013. Our distributors, which include Arrow, Avnet, Macnica, OS Electronics, World Peace and WT Microelectronics, resell to mid-sized and smaller OEMs and to electronic manufacturing service providers and other companies. Sales to certain distributors are made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Under certain agreements, distributors are allowed to return any product that we have removed from our price book. In addition, agreements with certain of our distributors contain stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Due to current limitations on the feasibility of estimating the upfront effect of returns and allowances with these distributors, we defer recognition of revenue and gross profit on sales to these distributors until these distributors resell the product. As a result, sales returns have minimal impact on our results of operations. Electronic Manufacturing Service Providers Direct sales to electronic manufacturing service providers accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues in 2015, and 8% of our revenues in 2014 and 2013. Among our largest electronic manufacturing service customers are Benchmark Electronic, Celestica, Flextronics, Jabil and Sanmina . These customers are manufacturers who typically provide contract manufacturing services for OEMs. Originally, these companies were involved primarily in the assembly of printed circuit boards, but they now typically provide design, supply management and manufacturing solutions as well. Many OEMs now outsource a large part of their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers in order to focus on their core competencies. We are pursuing a number of strategies to penetrate this increasingly important marketplace. Generally, our electronic manufacturing service customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to our standard warranty. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for revenues by geographic locations. Manufacturing Operations We operate front-end wafer site facilities in Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, and the United States and back-end assembly and test site facilities in Canada, China, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam and the United States. In addition to these front-end and back-end manufacturing operations, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic manufactures silicon wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. 15 Table of Contents The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint venture, as well as the reporting segments that use these facilities, along with the approximate gross square footage of each sites building, which includes, among other things, manufacturing, laboratory, warehousing, office, utility, support and unused areas. Location Reporting Segment Size (sq. ft.) Front-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada (1) (2) (3) Application Products Group 95,440 Gresham, Oregon Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 558,457 Pocatello, Idaho Application Products Group and Standard Products Group 575,276 Roznov, Czech Republic Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 740,349 Oudenaarde, Belgium Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 719,892 Seremban, Malaysia (Site 2) (3) Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 123,496 Niigata, Japan Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 1,106,779 Rochester, New York (4) Image Sensor Group 265,594 Back-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada (1) (2) (3) Application Products Group 95,440 Leshan, China (3) Application Products Group and Standard Products Group 406,696 Seremban, Malaysia (Site 1) (3) Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 328,204 Carmona, Philippines (1) Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 518,592 Tarlac City, Philippines (1) Application Products Group and System Solutions Group 354,861 Shenzhen, China (1)(3) System Solutions Group 277,984 Bien Hoa, Vietnam (3) Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 294,418 Gunma, Japan (1) (3) System Solutions Group 85,226 Rochester, New York (4) Image Sensor Group 265,594 Nampa, Idaho (1) Image Sensor Group 157,760 Other Facilities: Roznov, Czech Republic Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 740,349 Thuan An District, Vietnam (3) System Solutions Group 32,619 (1) These facilities are leased. (2) This facility is used for both front-end and back-end operations with a total square footage of 95,440. (3) These facilities are located on leased land. (4) This facility is used for both front-end and back-end operations with a total square footage of 265,594. Consists of one leased and one owned building. 16 Table of Contents We operate all of our manufacturing facilities directly, with the exception of our assembly and test operations facility located in Leshan, China, which is owned by a joint venture company, Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited (Leshan), of which we own a majority of the outstanding equity interests. Our investment in Leshan has been consolidated in our financial statements. Our joint venture partner, Leshan Radio Company Ltd., is formerly a state-owned enterprise. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, requests for production capacity are made to the board of directors of Leshan by each shareholder of the joint venture. Each request represents a purchase commitment by the requesting shareholder, provided that the shareholder may elect to pay the cost associated with the unused capacity (which is generally equal to the fixed cost of the capacity) in lieu of satisfying the commitment. We committed to purchase 80% of Leshans production capacity in 2015, 70% in 2014 and 2013 and are currently committed to purchase approximately 80% of Leshans expected production capacity in 2016. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we acquired an additional equity interest in Leshan, see Note 9: Earnings Per Share and Equity of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. We use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of finished goods. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts. In some cases, longer-term commitments are required in the early stages of the relationship. These contract manufacturers, including Amkor, ASE, LFoundry S.r.l., Kingpak, TSMC and UMC, accounted for approximately 39%, 30% and 26% of our manufacturing costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this report. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper, and lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources, generally on a just-in-time basis, and material agreements with our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations are reflected in our contractual obligations table in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources under the heading Contractual Obligations included elsewhere in this report. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials we use are currently and will continue to be available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply, increased demand in the industry or other factors. Sales, Marketing and Distribution As of December 31, 2015, our global sales and marketing organization consisted of approximately 1,200 professionals, servicing customers in approximately 70 countries. We support our customers through logistics organizations and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution channels further support our customers needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective global applications support from our Technical Information Centers and Solution Engineering Centers, allowing for applications which are developed in one region of the world to be instantaneously available throughout all other regions. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights We market our products under our registered trademark ON Semiconductor and our ON logo, and, in the United States and internationally, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, 17 Table of Contents employee and non-disclosure agreements and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property. We acquired or were licensed or sublicensed to a significant amount of IP, including patents and patent applications, in connection with our acquisitions, and we have numerous U.S. and foreign patents issued, allowed and pending. Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to about 2035, and none of the patents that expire in the near future materially affect our business. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our IP rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other IP rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. Seasonality Historically, our revenues have been affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the seasonal trends of related end-markets consisting of a stronger second half of the year for certain end-markets as compared to the first half of the year. We have, in the past, experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and, in the future, could continue to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions or for other reasons. Backlog Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to orders that are predominantly booked as far as 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demand from our Electronic Data Interface customers, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors, including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. For those shipments to distributors who are allowed sales return rights and allowances, we record revenues on a sell-through basis. Thus, backlog comprised of orders from these distributors will not result in revenues until these distributors sell the products ordered. During 2015, our backlog at the beginning of each quarter represented between 80% and 85% of actual revenues during such quarter, which is consistent with backlog levels in recent prior periods. As manufacturing capacity utilization in the industry increases, customers tend to order products further in advance and, as a result, backlog at the beginning of a period as a percentage of revenues during such period is likely to increase. In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required for producing ordered products. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general-purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. We face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our 18 Table of Contents components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, can be integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully-customized ICs, as well as customers who develop their own IC products. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business located elsewhere in this report for additional information. In comparison, several competitors noted below are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. The following discusses the effects of competition on our four operating segments: Application Products Group The principal methods of competition in the Application Products Group are with other custom semiconductor vendors based on design experience, manufacturing capability, depth and quality of IP, ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and experience of sales and technical support personnel. Our ability to compete successfully depends on internal and external variables, both inside and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Select competitors for certain of our products and solutions include: NXP Semiconductors N.V.; Infineon Technologies AG; Intersil Corporation; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; Melexis N.V.; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Texas Instruments Inc.; and Silicon Labs. Image Sensor Group The Image Sensor Group differentiates itself from the competition by leveraging deep technical knowledge and close customer relationships to drive the most compelling imaging experience for end users. The Image Sensor Group has over four decades of CCD imaging experience and was the first to commercialize CMOS active pixel sensors. The Image Sensor Group was the first to introduce CMOS technology into many of our markets, leveraging this expertise into market leading positions in automotive and industrial applications, bringing a wealth of technical and end-user applications knowledge to help customers develop innovative imaging solutions across a broad range of end-user needs. Select competitors for certain of our products and solutions include: Sony Semiconductor; Samsung; Omnivision; STMicroelectronics N.V.; and Toshiba. Standard Products Group The Standard Products Groups competitive strengths are in our market leading protection and filtering products, the breadth of our portfolio, technical performance, micro-packaging expertise, our high quality, low cost structure, and supply chain management which ensures supply to key customers. In addition, our strengths include our strong IP portfolio and our ability to leverage IP blocks across the Company to develop high value-added ASSPs. The principal methods of competing in our discrete semiconductor products are through new product and package innovations with enhanced performance over existing products. Of particular importance is our ESD portfolio for hi-speed serial interface protection products where we believe we enjoy significant performance advantages over our competition, as well as, power switching and rectification products. Select competitors for 19 Table of Contents certain of our products include: Diodes Incorporated; Infineon Technologies AG; KEC Corporation; NXP B.V.; Rohm Co., Ltd.; Semtech Corporation; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Fairchild; and Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. System Solutions Group The principal methods of competition for the System Solutions Group are technical performance, quality, service and price. Our competitive strengths are strong technology and design capability, breadth of product portfolio, systems design expertise and long-standing supply relationships with leading OEM customers. Select competitors for certain of our products include: Infineon Technologies AG; Mitsubishi Electric; NXP B.V.; Renesas Electronics Corporation; Rohm Co. Ltd.; Sanken Electric; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Texas Instruments Incorporated; Fairchild; and Toshiba Corporation. Research and Development Company-sponsored research and development costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $396.7 million (11% of revenue), $366.6 million (12% of revenue) and $334.2 million (12% of revenue), respectively. We seek to maximize the investment of our people and capital in research and development by targeting innovative products and solutions for high growth applications that position the company to outperform the industry. Our design expertise in analog, digital, mixed signal and imaging ICs, combined with our extensive portfolio of standard products enable the company to offer comprehensive, value added solutions to our global customers for their electronics systems. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to emissions and discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. Our headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a Superfund site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Motorola and now Freescale have been actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the State of Arizona. As part of our separation from Motorola in 1999, Motorola retained responsibility for this contamination, and Motorola and Freescale (which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of NXP Semiconductors N.V. on December 7, 2015) have agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. Our former manufacturing location in Aizu, Japan is located on property where soil and ground water contamination has been detected. We believe that the contamination originally occurred during a time when the facility was operated by a prior owner. We have been working with local authorities to implement remediation actions and expect all remaining remediation costs to be covered by insurance. Based on information available, any net costs to us in connection with this matter are not expected to be material. Our manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that this facility was operated by government-owned entities. The remediation projects consist primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site, with 20 Table of Contents additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded. The government of the Czech Republic has agreed to indemnify us and the respective subsidiaries, subject to specified limitations, for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. Our design center in East Greenwich, Rhode Island is located on property that has localized soil contamination. When we purchased the East Greenwich facility, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Covenant Not To Sue with the State of Rhode Island. This agreement requires that remedial actions be undertaken and a quarterly groundwater monitoring program be initiated by the former owners of the property. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. As a result of the acquisition of AMIS in 2008, we are a primary responsible party to an environmental remediation and cleanup at AMISs former corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Costs incurred by AMIS include implementation of the clean-up plan, operations and maintenance of remediation systems and other project management costs. However, AMISs former parent company, a subsidiary of Nippon Mining, contractually agreed to indemnify AMIS and us for any obligations relating to environmental remediation and clean-up at this location. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any future costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. We were notified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) in the Chemetco Superfund matter. Chemetco is a defunct reclamation services supplier who operated in Illinois at what is now a Superfund site. We used Chemetco for reclamation services. The EPA is pursuing Chemetco customers for contribution to the site cleanup activities. We have joined a PRP group which is cooperating with the EPA in the evaluation and funding of the cleanup. Based on the information available, any costs to us in connection with this matter have not been, and are not expected to be, material. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We do not expect the cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and liability for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs. See Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 24,500 employees worldwide, of which approximately 3,200 employees were in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our foreign employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements (e.g., those in Japan and Belgium) or similar arrangements or are represented by workers councils. For information regarding employee risk associated with our international operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Of the total number of our employees as of December 31, 2015, approximately 20,300 were engaged in manufacturing, approximately 1,200 were engaged in our sales and marketing organization, which includes customer service, approximately 800 were engaged in administration and approximately 2,200 were engaged in research and development. 21 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 17, 2016 is set forth below. Name Age Position Keith D. Jackson 60 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director* Bernard Gutmann 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer* George H. Cave 58 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Corporate Secretary* William M. Hall 60 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group* Robert A. Klosterboer 55 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Application Products Group* Mamoon Rashid 56 Senior Vice President and General Manager, System Solutions Group* Taner Ozcelik 48 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Image Sensor Group* Paul E. Rolls 53 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing* William A. Schromm 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer* * Executive Officers of both ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. The present term of office for the officers named above will generally expire on the earliest of their retirement, resignation or removal. There is no family relationship among such officers. Keith D. Jackson . Mr. Jackson was elected as a Director of ON Semiconductor and appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in November 2002. Mr. Jackson has more than 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. Before joining ON Semiconductor, he was with Fairchild, serving as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Groups, beginning in 1998, and, more recently, was head of its Integrated Circuits Group. From 1996 to 1998, he served as President and a member of the board of directors of Tritech Microelectronics in Singapore, a manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products. From 1986 to 1996, Mr. Jackson worked for National Semiconductor Corporation, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He also held various positions at Texas Instruments Incorporated, including engineering and management positions, from 1973 to 1986. Mr. Jackson joined the board of directors of Veeco Instruments, Inc. in February 2012 and has served on the board of directors of the Semiconductor Industry Association since 2008. In February of 2014, Mr. Jackson became a National Association of Corporate Directors Board Leadership Fellow, the highest level of credentialing for corporate directors and corporate governance professionals. Bernard Gutmann . Mr. Gutmann was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in September 2012 and has served as ON Semiconductors and SCI LLCs Treasurer since January 2013. Before his promotion, he worked with the corporation as Vice President, Corporate Analysis & Strategy of SCI LLC, serving in that position from April 2006 to September 2012. In these roles, his responsibilities have included finance integration, financial reporting, restructuring, tax, treasury, and financial planning and analysis. From November 2002 to April 2006, Mr. Gutmann served as Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis and Treasury of SCI LLC. From September 1999 to November 2002, he held the position of Director, Financial Planning & Analysis of SCI LLC. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Mr. Gutmann served in various financial positions with Motorola from 1982 to 1999, including controller of various divisions and an off-shore wafer and backend factory, finance and accounting manager, financial planning manager and financial analyst. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Management Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts (U.S.). Additionally, he is fluent in English, French, Spanish, and conversant in German. 22 Table of Contents George H. Sonny Cave . Mr. Cave is the founding General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at ON Semiconductor since the 1999 spin-out from Motorola Inc. He is also Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer and Chief Risk Officer. His extensive legal and business experience spans over 30 years, including seven years with Motorola. For two years prior to ON Semiconductors spin-out, he was an ex patriate stationed in Geneva, Switzerland as Regulatory Affairs Director for Motorolas Semiconductor Components Group. Before that assignment, he spent five years with Motorolas Corporate Law Department in Phoenix, Arizona where he was Senior Counsel for global Environmental Health and Safety. Mr. Cave also practiced law for six years with two large firms in Denver and Phoenix. He has extensive experience in corporate law, governance, enterprise risk management and compliance and ethics. He holds a Juris Doctorate Degree from the University of Colorado School of Law (1985), a Master of Science Degree from Arizona State University (1982) and a Bachelor of Science Degree cum laude from Duke University (1979). William M. Hall . Mr. Hall joined the Company in May 2006 and is currently the Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. During his career, Mr. Hall has held various marketing and product line management positions. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group at Fairchild. Between March 1997 and May 2006, Mr. Hall served at different times as Vice President of Business Development, Analog Products Group, Standard Products Group, and Interface and Logic Group, as well as serving as Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Fairchild. He has also held management positions with National Semiconductor Corp. and was a RADAR design engineer with RCA. Robert A. Klosterboer . Mr. Klosterboer joined the Company in March 2008 and currently serves as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Application Products Group for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. From March 2008 to September 2012, he was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the business unit then known as the Automotive, Industrial, Medical, & Mil/Aero Group. He has more than three decades of experience in the electronics industry. During his career, Mr. Klosterboer has held various engineering, marketing and product line management positions and responsibilities. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor in 2008, Mr. Klosterboer was Senior Vice President, Automotive & Industrial Group for AMI Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Klosterboer joined AMIS in 1982 as a test engineer, and during his tenure there, he also was a design engineer, field applications engineer, design section manager, program development manager, and product marketing manager. Mr. Klosterboer holds a Bachelors degree in electrical engineering technology from Montana State University. Mamoon Rashid . Mr. Rashid has over 30 years of experience in the semiconductor and electronics industry spanning marketing, manufacturing, sales and product line management positions. In January 2013, Mr. Rashid was appointed as Senior Vice President and General Manager, SANYO Semiconductor Group (now known as the System Solutions Group) for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Prior to his promotion, Mr. Rashid held the position of Vice President of strategic business development, during which time he led the integration and restructuring of SANYO Semiconductor. Mr. Rashid joined ON Semiconductor in October 2004 and has held several leadership positions during his time with us. Prior to September 2008, Mr. Rashid served as Vice President and General Manager of our discrete products division, where he improved the growth and profitability of the business by entering several new product areas. From September 2008 to 2010, Mr. Rashid led our global supply chain organization as Vice President and General Manager during a transformational period for the Company. In these positions, he has supported the growth of ON Semiconductor into a multi-technology leading supplier of power solutions and helped improve profitability, efficiency and new product successes. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Mr. Rashid held leadership positions at market leading companies such as Intersil, Semtech and General Semiconductor. 23 Table of Contents Taner Ozcelik . Mr. Ozcelik joined ON Semiconductor in August 2014 as the Senior Vice President of the Aptina Imaging Business and on February 20, 2015, he was named the Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Image Sensor Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr Ozcelik has served at the intersection of semiconductors, consumer electronics, computing and automotive industries for more than two decades. Most recently, he served as Senior Vice President of Aptinas Automotive and Embedded business. Prior to this, Mr. Ozcelik was Vice President and General Manager of NVIDIAs automotive business. While at NVIDIA, he developed several award winning firsts in automotive, which spanned a variety of applications including infotainment systems, digital instrument clusters, automotive tablets and advanced driver assistance systems, which are now featured in cars worldwide. During his career, Mr. Ozcelik has also held positions as President and CEO at MobileSmarts and as Vice President and General Manager at Sony Semiconductor for its Digital Home Platform Division. Mr. Ozcelik holds an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Northwestern University, and a BS in Electrical Engineering from Bogazici University, Turkey. He is listed as an inventor on 23 U.S. patents. Paul E. Rolls . Mr. Rolls was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in July 2013. Before his promotion, he served as Senior Vice President, Japan Sales and Marketing and Senior Vice President of Global Sales Operations, serving in that position from October 2012 to July 2013. Mr. Rolls has more than 26 years of technology sales, sales management and operations experience, with more than 19 years of sales and sales management experience in the semiconductor industry. Before joining the Company, Mr. Rolls was the Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Integrated Device Technology, Inc. from January 2010 to April 2012. From August 1996 to December 2009, he held multiple sales positions at International Rectifier Corp., most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Sales. During his career, he has also held management roles at Compaq Computer Corporation. William A. Schromm Mr. Schromm has more than 30 years of semiconductor industry experience, has been with the Company since August 1999 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC since August 2014. Prior to becoming Chief Operating Officer, he was a Senior Vice President responsible for quality, external manufacturing, System Solutions Group manufacturing, global supply chain, information technology, corporate program management. Prior to this role, Mr. Schromm served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Companys former Computing and Consumer Products Group from June 2006 through September 2012. During his tenure with the Company, he has held various positions. From August 2004 through May 2006, he served as the Vice President and General Manager of the Companys former High Performance Analog Division and also led the Companys former Analog Products Group. Beginning in January 2003, he served as Vice President of the Clock and Data Management business and continued in that role with additional product responsibilities when this business became the High Performance Analog Division in August 2004. Prior to that, he served as the Vice President of Tactical Marketing from July 2001 through December 2002, after leading the Companys Standard Logic Division since August 1999. Since April 2015, Mr. Schromm has served on the board of directors of II-VI, Inc. Mr. Schromm earned a BS degree from Boston College and an MBA from the University of Phoenix. Geographical Information For certain geographic operating information, see Note 15: Income Taxes and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in each case, as included elsewhere in this report. For information regarding other aspects of risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. 24 Table of Contents Available Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website is www.onsemi.com . You may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as believes, estimates, expects, projects, may, will, intends, plans, or anticipates, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations, forecasts, estimates and assumptions, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Among these factors are our revenues and operating performance, economic conditions and markets (including current financial conditions), effects of exchange rate fluctuations, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, enforcement and protection of our IP rights and related risks, risks related to the security of our information systems and secured network, availability of raw materials, electricity, gas, water and other supply chain uncertainties, our ability to effectively shift production to other facilities when required in order to maintain supply continuity for our customers, variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for semiconductor products, our ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality for our current products, risks associated with our pending acquisition of Fairchild, including: (1) the risk that the conditions to the closing of the transaction are not satisfied; (2) litigation challenging the transaction; (3) uncertainties as to the timing of the consummation of the transaction and the ability of each party to consummate the transaction; (4) risks that the proposed transaction disrupts our current plans and operations; (5) our ability to retain key personnel; (6) competitive responses to the transaction; (7) unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the transaction; (8) potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships resulting from the announcement or completion of the transaction; (9) our ability to realize the benefits of the acquisition of Fairchild; (10) delays, challenges and expenses associated with integrating the businesses; (11) delays, challenges and expenses associated with the indebtedness planned to be incurred in connection with the transaction; and (12) legislative, regulatory and economic developments, competitor actions, including the adverse impact of competitor product announcements, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses and realization of cost savings and synergies from restructurings, significant litigation, risks associated with decisions to expend cash reserves for various uses in accordance with our capital 25 Table of Contents allocation policy such as debt prepayment, stock repurchases, or acquisitions rather than to retain such cash for future needs, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions (including from integrating and consolidating and timely filing financial information with the SEC for acquired businesses and difficulties encountered in accurately predicting the future financial performance of acquired businesses), risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements that may be in place from time to time, risks associated with our worldwide operations including foreign employment and labor matters associated with unions and collective bargaining arrangements as well as man-made and/or natural disasters affecting our operations and finances/financials, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, risks related to new legal requirements and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information, except as may be required by law. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business From time to time, we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and incur additional operating losses in the future. At times, our historical financial results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and during those times we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses. Reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, the effects of natural disasters such as the flooding in Thailand or the Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011, and other factors have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. In the event of such a downturn, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. On the other hand, significant upturns have led to increased customer demand for our products and the risk of not being able to meet this demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In the event of such an upturn, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, or locate suitable third-party suppliers to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely 26 Table of Contents affected. We may also not be able to balance our expansion activities and actual demand in such an environment. The overbuilding of capacity and excess increases of inventory by us and other companies can result in overcapacity in the industry and general price erosion. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience them in the future. We cannot accurately predict the timing of the current and future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. These future conditions in the semiconductor industry could adversely impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to complete our acquisition of Fairchild may adversely affect our business and our share price. Our and Fairchilds obligations to consummate our acquisition of Fairchild are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary conditions, including (i) the absence of any law or order prohibiting or restraining the Fairchild Transaction or any law making the consummation of the Fairchild Transaction illegal, (ii) there being no event that has or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either us or Fairchild, (iii) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties in the Fairchild Agreement, and (iv) performance by ON Semiconductor and Fairchild of their respective obligations under the Fairchild Agreement. There can be no assurance that these conditions to the completion of the Fairchild Transaction will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. In addition, other factors, such as the possibility of an intervening offer for Fairchild or our ability to obtain the debt financing we need to consummate the Fairchild Transaction, may affect when and whether the Merger will occur. If the Fairchild Transaction is not completed, our share price could fall to the extent that our current price reflects an assumption that we will complete the acquisition. Furthermore, if the Fairchild Transaction is not completed, we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and share price, including the following: (1) we could be required to pay a termination fee of $215 million to Fairchild under certain circumstances as described in the Fairchild Agreement; (2) we would have incurred significant costs in connection with the acquisition that we would be unable to recover; (3) we may be subject to legal proceedings related to failure to complete the Fairchild Transaction; (4) the failure to consummate the Fairchild Transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community; and (5) any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Fairchild Transaction, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the acquisition is not consummated. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Fairchild Transaction. The Fairchild Transaction, if completed, will be our largest acquisition to date, by a significant margin. The benefits we expect to realize from the acquisition of Fairchild are necessarily based on projections and assumptions about combining our business with Fairchild, which may not materialize or which may prove to be inaccurate. Uncertainty about the Fairchild Transaction may adversely affect our business and share price, whether or not the Fairchild Transaction is completed. We are subject to risks in connection with the announcement and pendency of the Fairchild Transaction, including: (1) the pendency and outcome of the legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, our directors and others relating to the Fairchild Transaction; and (2) that we may forgo opportunities we might otherwise pursue absent the Fairchild Agreement. 27 Table of Contents Uncertainties about the Fairchild Transaction may also cause our current and prospective employees (including employees at Fairchild) to experience uncertainty about their future with us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, sales, marketing, engineering, technical and other personnel. In addition, in response to the announcement of the Fairchild Transaction, our existing or prospective customers, vendors or suppliers may: (1) delay, defer or cease purchasing goods or services from or providing goods or services to us; (2) delay or defer other decisions concerning us, or refuse to extend credit to us; or (3) otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us. While we are attempting to address these risks through communications with our existing and prospective customers, vendors and suppliers, they may be reluctant to purchase our products due to potential uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings and the support and service of our products after we complete the Fairchild Transaction. We may fail to realize the benefits expected from the Fairchild Transaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Although we expect significant benefits to result from the Fairchild Transaction, there can be no assurance that we will actually realize these or any other anticipated benefits of the Fairchild Transaction. The price for our stock, following completion of the Fairchild Transaction may be affected by our ability to achieve the benefits expected to result from the Fairchild Transaction. Achieving the benefits of the Fairchild Transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate Fairchilds business successfully and efficiently with our business. We intend to finance the estimated $2.4 billion of cash consideration with a combination of cash on hand, new, fully-committed debt financing and proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities. The debt that we expect to incur will bear interest based on floating rate indices or, in the event of the issuance of any debt securities, at fixed rates to be determined at the time of issuance based on prevailing market conditions. As a result, increases in prevailing interest rates related to this new debt financing would result in a higher cost of capital and significantly increase our annual interest expense even though the amounts borrowed would remain the same, which likely would reduce the anticipated benefits of the Fairchild Transaction and would adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The challenges involved in this integration, which will be complex and time consuming, include the following: (1) demonstrating to customers of ON Semiconductor and Fairchild that the Fairchild Transaction will not adversely affect our ability to address the needs of customers or result in the loss of attention or business focus; (2) coordinating and integrating research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; (3) consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures; (4) coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities and the direction of product development; and (5) minimizing the diversion of management attention from important business objectives. If we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating Fairchild, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the Fairchild Transaction and our post-acquisition revenue, expenses, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, any of which could materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Litigation challenging the Fairchild Agreement may prevent the Fairchild Transaction from being consummated at all or within the expected timeframe. Fairchild, Fairchilds board of directors, ON Semiconductor and our wholly-owned subsidiary Falcon Operations Sub, Inc. are currently parties to a putative shareholder class action related to the Fairchild Transaction and may be parties to additional, similar claims and litigation. Among other remedies, the plaintiff in the proceeding to which we are a party seeks to enjoin the Fairchild Transaction. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict and could delay or prevent the Fairchild Transaction from becoming effective in a timely manner. The pending litigation is, and any additional litigation could be, time consuming and expensive, could divert our managements attention away from their regular business, and, if any one of these lawsuits is adversely resolved against either us or Fairchild, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to effect the Fairchild Transaction. One of the conditions to closing the Fairchild Transaction is that no governmental entity having jurisdiction over us or Fairchild shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other material action enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the Fairchild Transaction substantially on the terms contemplated by the Fairchild Agreement, and that no law shall have been enacted or promulgated by any governmental entity that makes the consummation of the Fairchild Transaction illegal. Consequently, if a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting our ability to complete the Fairchild Transaction on terms contemplated by the Fairchild Agreement, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Fairchild Transaction from being effective in a timely manner or at all. For additional information regarding this litigation, see Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies under the heading Legal Matters of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The semiconductor industry is characterized by significant price erosion, especially after a product has been on the market for a significant period of time. One of the results of the rapid innovation in the semiconductor industry is that pricing pressure, especially with respect to products containing older technology, can be intense. Product life cycles are relatively short and, as a result, products tend to be replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes on a frequent basis. In turn, demand for older technology falls, causing the price at which such products can be sold to drop, in some cases precipitously. In order to continue to profitably supply these products, we must reduce our production costs in line with the lower prices we can expect to receive per unit. Usually, this must be accomplished through improvements in process technology and production efficiencies. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will no longer be able to make a profit from the sale of these products. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of such products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons and, as a result, may be required to bear a loss on such products. Should reductions in our manufacturing costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, this could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Adverse global economic conditions may result in fluctuations and reductions in consumer and commercial spending from time to time, and such conditions or uncertainties about such conditions may result in lower orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The semiconductor industry has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, 29 Table of Contents declines in general economic conditions. Volatility in global economic conditions, including the level of the economic recovery in the United States, the growth rate of the Chinese economy, the effect of conditions in Japan, including a weakened demand environment and Japanese Yen, and economic weakness in many other countries and regions, volatility in oil prices and conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Middle East, may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations, and we cannot accurately predict volatility or how severe and prolonged any downturn or recovery might be. Reduced spending has in the past driven us and may in the future drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which results in a negative effect on gross profit. In addition, to the extent we incorrectly plan for favorable economic conditions that do not materialize or take longer to materialize than expected, our business and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Moreover, volatility in revenues as a result of unpredictable economic conditions may alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short-term and long-term strategies. Furthermore, the United States and global credit markets could experience renewed financial turmoil. If the past pressures on credit were renewed or we experience an additional global downturn, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all, and we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, any outstanding debt when due, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity, on terms acceptable to us, to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the immediate future, if our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, global financial uncertainty affecting the financial markets and economies generally could impact our business in a number of other ways, including causing (1) our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases, (2) our customers difficulties in obtaining sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, (3) our key suppliers to become capacity-constrained or insolvent, resulting in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and (4) our key suppliers to require acceleration of payments to them or our customers to delay payments to us. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing stockholders. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other factors, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We face risks resulting from the expansion of our operations through acquisitions, including but not limited to: (1) the difficulty of integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations, which will likely be geographically separated and involve separate technologies and corporate cultures; (2) risks of entering new semiconductor markets or regions of the world in which we have limited experience; (3) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies; (4) the risk that our due diligence in the acquisition process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisitions; (5) the risk that our existing or prospective customers or customers of the acquired business may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions as we integrate new businesses and companies into our business, or that they may seek to change their existing business relationships; (6) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, including difficulties in entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; 30 Table of Contents (7) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; (9) the diversion of managements attention from the daily operations of existing businesses; and (10) negative pressure on gross margins resulting from increased operating and restructuring costs. The integration of newly acquired businesses will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Moreover, even if we were able to fully integrate a new acquisitions business operations and other assets successfully, there can be no assurance that such integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or were anticipated from the acquisition or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Delays in integrating our acquisitions, which could be caused by factors outside of our control, could adversely affect the intended benefits of the acquisitions to our business, financial results, financial condition and the trading price of our stock and other securities. In addition, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with us, and as a result, we could lose key employees. These uncertainties may also impair our ability to recruit or motivate key personnel. In connection with a transaction, key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. These amounts could impact their willingness to continue to work for us. Further, as a result of our acquisitions, we may assume liabilities from the targets current employee benefit plans that may require us to bring plan documentation into compliance with current law, including ensuring that plans are adequately funded. In connection with our acquisition activity, we are required by generally accepted accounting principles and SEC rules and regulations to integrate newly acquired businesses into our consolidated financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements, or if they do have independent audited financial statements, such statements may not be prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, which could materially impair our ability to obtain or prepare necessary financial information concerning such businesses in a format required to allow proper integration with our systems and financial statements. In addition, immediately after an acquisition and until such time as we are able to fully integrate an acquired business into our financial statements, we may be dependent on the acquired business financial controls and systems for reporting and other financial information, including projections and goals for such acquired business. We may not be able to successfully prepare and file required financial statements or other financial information for the acquired business, or to integrate the acquired business into our financial controls and systems and our consolidated financial statements in a timely manner. Failure to prepare accurate financial reports for our acquired businesses in a timely manner in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could cause material inaccuracies in our financial statements and SEC filings, which could result in the necessity to restate our financials or lead to unknown liabilities and possibly result in a material impact on the trading price of our stock and other securities. In connection with an acquisition, including the acquisition of Fairchild, it is possible that we may anticipate tax savings through integration of the newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure. As with any estimate, it is possible that the estimates of the potential savings could turn out to be incorrect. 31 Table of Contents We review goodwill associated with our acquisitions for impairment at least on an annual basis (see Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Note 5: Goodwill and Intangible Assets of the notes to our consolidated audited financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about goodwill). In the past, we have recorded goodwill impairment charges related to certain of our acquisitions. Factors we consider important that could result in a subsequent impairment to goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. We may have further material goodwill impairments which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our financial position and operating results. In any such case, it is possible that factors outside of our control, including but not limited to increases in interest rates and loss of key customers, could adversely affect the intended benefits from an acquisition, even though we would continue to have a repayment obligation under the related loan agreement. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization and realizing expected synergies from acquisitions. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs and depreciation expense. We believe that our success materially depends on our ability to maintain or improve our current margin levels related to our manufacturing. For instance, if we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. Moreover, we believe that we will need to continue to improve the margin levels of our System Solutions Group. While we anticipate that certain cost reduction measures taken, including voluntary retirement programs implemented in 2013 and 2014, should improve the margin levels of the System Solutions Group business, we may benefit fully from such actions and may need to take additional cost reduction measures. The failure to successfully implement profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions, including restructuring activities, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other factors, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs have been primarily composed of employee separation costs and asset impairments. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operating Expenses under the heading Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net and Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information on restructuring activities. 32 Table of Contents We also often undertake restructuring activities in connection with our business acquisitions, which can result in significant charges, including charges for severance payments to terminated employees and asset impairment charges. We cannot assure you that our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives will be successfully or timely implemented, or that they will materially and positively impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. For additional information regarding our profitability enhancement programs and cost reduction measures, see Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operating Expenses under the heading Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net and Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) further expand our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) further reduce the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) integrate newly acquired products, manufacturing capabilities and sales channels. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products, and the new products and applications that we are developing, and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other factors, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our IP portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. Several of these factors and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, the impact of natural disasters and cyber attacks, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. 33 Table of Contents We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operating Expenses under the heading Research and Development for a description of our expenditures for research and development. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process and often requires significant capital investment. Additionally, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. There can be no assurance that we will win competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, for new products. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products, including any delays in establishing sufficient manufacturing capacity, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, design wins do not guarantee that we will make customer sales or that we will generate sufficient revenue to recover design and development investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users, including changes due to evolving consumer preferences, international political developments influencing end-user preferences, and natural disasters or other extraordinary events that impact our customers or end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. There is no assurance that the products we develop and market will be well received by customers, that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop new products, that a significant investment in new products will be profitable or that we will have margins as high as we anticipate at the time of investment or have experienced historically. Further, a fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Uncertainties involving the timing and amount of orders, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements, and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely generate inventory based on customers estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In 34 Table of Contents addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Although only a few companies compete with us in most of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major global semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully customized ICs, as well as from customers who develop their own IC products. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. In different product lines, we compete, to varying degrees, on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, tablets, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Any inability to maintain revenues or raise prices to offset increases in costs could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin and on our business and prospects as a whole. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidation that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including: substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We and our competitors continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency is and will continue to be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other conditions and events, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities (including as a part of our cost reduction measures and in reaction to man-made and natural 35 Table of Contents disasters, such as the 2011 flooding in Thailand), upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or uncertainty as a result of the acquisition and integration of manufacturing facilities acquired as a result of our acquisition activities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing, information technology and equipment to remain competitive, and any failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Such capital expenditures and commitments, as well as other commitments, may materially decrease our liquidity. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Our manufacturing, assembly and test facilities have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and utilize these new technologies. There also is no assurance that the new technologies we do develop and utilize will be sufficient to support our business operations and strategies, or that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such new technologies. We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. In the recent past, we have undertaken various and material cost reduction measures which we believe have been largely successful. However, these reductions, and any future reductions, may unintentionally affect our ability to remain competitive in efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be forced to increase our future capital expenditures in unexpected ways to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make timely and necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and other business disruptions. Our worldwide operations are subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions from time to time, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial reporting and condition. We are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by floods, hurricanes, typhoons, droughts, and other extreme weather conditions, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, and similar natural disasters, as well as power outages, power shortages, telecommunications failures, industrial accidents, and similar events. Such events can cause direct injury or damage to our employees and property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, and related internal controls, and can also have significant direct and indirect consequences. For example, such events can negatively impact revenues and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow, both from decreased revenue and from increased costs associated with the event. Such costs may include expenses to 36 Table of Contents restore production or to move production to other facilities, including incremental capital expenditures and costs for expedited shipping, expenses incurred with a shut-down of the damaged facility, including employee severance payments, and other unusual costs and expenses such as fixed asset impairments, inventory write-downs, charges relating to cancellation of purchase orders for excess materials and charges for restoration and recovery work. Overall costs may also be impacted by other factors, such as the under-absorption of our manufacturing and operating support overhead. For example, in the case of our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic that manufactures silicon wafers used by a number of our facilities, any natural or man-made disaster, operational disruption, or other extraordinary event that impacted the facility or regional infrastructure would have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to produce a number of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, costs, and/or prospects if we were unable to effectively source silicon wafers on acceptable terms from qualified third parties to replace the production loss. Such events may also affect the infrastructure of the country in which the event occurs, causing water damage, power outages and rolling blackouts, transportation delays and restrictions, public health issues and economic instability and disrupting local and international supply chains. As a result, we could experience shortages of, and interruptions in supply and increased prices for, components that we source from companies located in or with operations in any such country, as well as from other suppliers whose supply chains may similarly be affected. Such shortages and interruptions may also affect our ability to communicate with our customers and suppliers and to timely deliver our products to customers and, as a result, our customers may seek substitute products from other manufacturers. In addition, damage or destruction to our books and financial and corporate records and data could adversely affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the historical and future reporting of our financial results and our ability to integrate the financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies. Responding to natural disasters and their consequences will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Although we carry insurance to generally compensate for losses of the type noted above, such insurance may be subject to deductible and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred or continue to be available in the affected area at commercially reasonable rates and terms. If we were to lose one of our large customers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not turn to other suppliers, significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. See Part I, Item 1 Business - Customers for a description of revenues from our largest customers. We rely on customers in the automotive and communications industries for a significant portion of our revenue. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive and communications industries (including networking). Sales into these industries represented approximately 33% and 18% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2015, and those percentages will vary from quarter to quarter. Both the automotive and communications industries are cyclical, and, as a result, our customers in these industries are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, which can adversely affect sales of our products. 37 Table of Contents Additionally, the quantity and price of our products sold to customers in these industries could decline despite continued growth in these end markets. Lower sales to customers in the automotive or communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, the costs of our raw materials increase significantly, their quality deteriorates or the raw materials give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon, silicon wafers, gold, copper, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt production in material ways. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts and, in some cases, require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations and customer relations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. In any such case, arranging for replacement contractors can be time consuming and costly, and we may encounter start-up difficulties. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Asia/Pacific region, the Americas, and Europe, and we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); 38 Table of Contents changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; exposure to different legal standards, customs, business practices, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, including changes with respect to price protection, competition practices, IP, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license requirements and restrictions, and accounts receivable collections; transportation and other supply chain delays and disruptions; power supply shortages and shutdowns; fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor laws and other employment and labor issues; currency fluctuations; currency convertibility and repatriation; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; limitations on the repatriation of earnings and potential taxation of foreign profits in the United States; potential violations by our international employees or third party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations (e.g., the Federal Corrupt Practices Act); difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; and other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We have historically benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. However, our effective tax rate is uncertain on an ongoing basis. Changes to income tax regulations in the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws, could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, other factors or events, including business combinations and investment transactions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns or as a result of deficiencies asserted by taxing authorities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in available tax credits, increasing operations in high tax jurisdictions, and changes in tax rates, could also increase our future effective tax rate. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In the U.S., a number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies, but it is not possible to accurately determine the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. The distribution of any earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to the United States may be subject to United States income taxes, thus reducing our net income. We hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt repurchases, payments, acquisitions, including our potential acquisition of Fairchild, and stock repurchases. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, through borrowings under our current debt agreements or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. Any such taxes would reduce our net income in the period in which these earnings are distributed. We operate a global business through numerous foreign subsidiaries, and there is a risk that tax authorities will challenge our transfer pricing methodologies and/or legal entity structures, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries, and are therefore subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between related parties be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arms length transaction between unrelated parties. There is uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. Based on our current knowledge and probability assessment of potential outcomes, we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures. However, the ultimate outcome of a tax examination could differ materially from our provisions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our legal organizational structure could result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operational results. Changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, any challenges to how our entities are structured or realigned or their business purpose by taxing authorities could result in us becoming subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 40 Table of Contents A significant amount of our international business is transacted in local currency and a significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States, which exposes us to risk relating to currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability and financial flexibility. We have sizeable sales and operations in Asia and European regions. A significant amount of this business is transacted in local currency. As a result, our financial performance is impacted by currency fluctuations. A significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is currently held outside the United States, and we continue to generate profits outside of the United States, while many of our liabilities, including our outstanding indebtedness, and certain other cash payments, such as share repurchases, are payable in U.S. dollars. Repatriation of some of the funds held outside the United States could have potential adverse tax consequences and could be subject to delay because of required local country approvals or local obligations. In addition, at times we are required to make cash deposits to support bank guarantees of our obligations under certain office leases or amounts we owe to certain vendors from whom we purchase goods and services. Nearly all of these arrangements are outside of the United States, and these cash deposits are not available for other uses as long as the bank guarantees are outstanding. Foreign exchange regulations may also limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the United States, our financial flexibility may be reduced, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to make interest and principal payments due under our various debt obligations. Our balance of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $517.8 million at December 31, 2014 and our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $617.6 million at December 31, 2015, and of those amounts, approximately $203.6 million and $240.7 million was available in the United States at December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success, both generally and in connection with mergers and acquisitions, depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled design, technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. In addition, from time to time, we have announced certain cost reductions that included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. We also establish performance criteria for awards to officers and employees under bonus and other incentive plans and programs that may not be satisfied. These measures, as well as any future measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel and our existing employment agreements do not require the employee to continue to work for us. As employee incentives, we have issued common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at the time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time, RSUs with time-based vesting and performance-based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new, or amendments to, equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue these types of awards. Our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 41 Table of Contents We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various laws and regulations governing our registered and unregistered IP assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. These laws and regulations are subject to legislative and regulatory change and interpretation by courts. Additionally, some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications. With respect to our IP generally, we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective IP protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party IP rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such IP rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for IP we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages; indemnify customers or distributors; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of processes; or obtain licenses, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to the infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to IP arising out of our research. 42 Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, software licenses and other IP is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our IP rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the IP right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of IP rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged IP rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged IP rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, including securities litigation, litigation in connection with acquisitions and litigation over executive compensation and disclosure of executive compensation. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and we can provide no assurance that securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions and executive compensation will not subject us to additional litigation. This sort of litigation can be particularly costly and may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider either routine matters that arise in the normal course of business or immaterial for our aggregate business operations. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor and IP. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to obtain credit and financing for our operations and to compete in the marketplace. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report for more information on our legal proceedings. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Like most publicly traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which requires managements annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. 43 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined companys internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including delaying or failing to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our internal control over financial reporting or the identification and reporting of a material weakness, may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of such transactions, and the trading price of our common stock or other securities may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. See Part II, Item 9A