Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 7: Long-Term Debt and Note 9: Equity of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for current debt levels and annual interest expense. Cost Savings Activities We continue to implement profitability enhancement programs to improve our cost structure and, as a result, we expect to rank, as compared to our primary competitors, among the lowest in terms of cost structure. Our profitability enhancement programs will continue to focus on: transferring production to lower cost regions; increasing die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner by moving production from 6 wafers to 8 wafers and smaller geometrics resulting in an increase to the number of die per wafer; reducing the number of product platforms and process flows; and focusing production on profitable product families. Recent Company Mergers and Acquisitions On May 15, 2006, we, through our principal domestic operating subsidiary, SCI LLC, purchased LSI Logic Corporations (LSI) Gresham, Oregon wafer fabrication facility, including real property, tangible personal property, certain intangible assets, other specific manufacturing equipment and related information. The assets purchased included an approximately 83 acre campus with an estimated 500,000 square feet of building space of which approximately 98,000 square feet is clean room. We hired substantially all of the manufacturing and engineering employees working at the Gresham wafer fabrication facility at the time of the purchase. On December 31, 2007, we purchased from Analog Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (ADI) certain assets, including property, plant and equipment and intellectual property rights related to ADIs voltage regulation and thermal monitoring products for its computing applications business (PTC Business) for a total acquisition cost of $148.0 million of cash. As a result of the acquisition, we have benefited from the technical expertise, customer 5 Table of Contents relationships and power management know-how of the PTC Business and its employees. This acquisition expands our overall computing power management business and increased our notebook power management market share. On March 17, 2008, we completed the purchase of AMIS Holdings, Inc. (AMIS), whereby AMIS became our wholly-owned subsidiary. At the effective time of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of AMIS was converted into 1.15 shares of our common stock, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 103.2 million shares of our common stock upon the consummation of the merger. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $939.7 million, which included common stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), options and warrants issued and estimated direct transaction costs. We believe the combination has enhanced and will continue to enhance shareholder value by (1) accelerating our transformation from a discrete supplier to a key supplier with scale; (2) strengthening our end-market presence, facilitating our entry into new markets and deepening customer relationships; (3) obtaining significant scale and cash flow generation; and (4) achieving cost savings by leveraging our operational excellence and increasing the activity in our Gresham, Oregon wafer fabrication facility. On October 10, 2008, we completed the purchase of Catalyst Semiconductor, Inc. (Catalyst) whereby Catalyst became our wholly-owned subsidiary. At the effective time of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Catalyst was converted into 0.706 shares of our common stock, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 10.9 million shares of our common stock upon the consummation of the merger. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $120.1 million, which included common stock, RSUs, options and warrants issued and estimated direct transaction costs. We believe the combination has enhanced and will continue to enhance shareholder value by (1) accelerating our higher margin analog products for the digital consumer market; (2) providing entry into the EEPROM business; (3) leveraging scale to drive growth in the business; and (4) achieving cost savings by leveraging our operational excellence and increasing the activity in our Gresham, Oregon wafer fabrication facility. On November 4, 2009, we completed the purchase of PulseCore Holdings (Cayman) Inc. (PulseCore), whereby PulseCore became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this all cash transaction was approximately $17 million. The acquisition of PulseCore expands our high gross profit clock and circuit protection offerings for the consumer, wireless and computing end-market customers. PulseCores capabilities in standard and custom high-speed and low power analog and mixed signal solutions for EMI (electromagnetic interference) reduction also enhance our overall EMI filtering and circuit protection portfolios. In addition, PulseCores history in India represents our first foray of design activity in that country. On January 27, 2010, we completed the purchase of California Micro Devices Corporation (CMD), pursuant to a tender offer at a price of $4.70 per share of CMD stock, whereby CMD became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this all cash transaction was approximately $113.2 million. We believe that the combination has strengthened and will continue to strengthen our offering of application specific integrated passive (ASIP) devices to protect products in the wireless, computing and consumer electronics end-markets. In addition, CMDs expertise in protection solutions for the high brightness LED (HBLED) market, as well as their strengths in low current-based EMI (electromagnetic interference) filtering and low capacitance ESD (electrostatic discharge) protection, complement our existing portfolio of protection and lighting solutions. On June 9, 2010, we completed the purchase of Sound Design Technologies, Ltd. (SDT), whereby SDT became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The aggregate purchase price of this transaction was approximately $22.0 million. Additionally, in connection with this purchase agreement, we recorded a contingent liability of $1.8 million, which had a balance of $1.1 million at December 31, 2010 and represents the estimated fair value of our earn-out obligations triggered if SDT is able to meet certain revenue targets in any of 2010, 2011 or 2012. We believe that this acquisition has strengthened and will continue to strengthen our position as a leading supplier of ultra-low power digital processing (DSP) technology for hearing aids and audio processing applications, strengthens our talent base and adds an experienced design and applications engineering team for medical 6 Table of Contents devices within our digital and mixed-signal products group. In addition, SDTs advanced manufacturing expertise in chip-scale capacitors and high density packaging will also expand our capabilities in delivering advanced, highly miniaturized packaging technology crucial for hearing aid and similarly size-constrained applications that demand medical-grade quality. As previously mentioned, on January 1, 2011 we completed the purchase of SANYO Semiconductor, whereby SANYO Semiconductor became our wholly-owned subsidiary. On January 27, 2011 we announced that we entered into a definitive purchase agreement with Cypress Semiconductor Corp. (Cypress Semiconductor), providing for the acquisition of the CMOS Image Sensor Business Unit (ISBU) from Cypress Semiconductor. The purchase price of the all cash transaction is expected to be $31.4 million and the transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2011, subject to customary closing conditions. We believe that this acquisition will solidify our position as a leading supplier of CMOS Image Sensor Products, will strengthen our talent base and will add an experienced design and applications engineering team for the image sensor market segment. The 2D high-speed CMOS image sensors from the ISBU will significantly strengthen and complement our image sensor products for the industrial, medical, computing and military aerospace markets. See Note 4: Acquisitions and Note 17: Subsequent Events of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for further discussion of some of these acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents Products and Technology The following table provides information regarding our primary operating segments: Automotive & Power Group Computing & Consumer Products Group Digital & Mixed-Signal Products Group Standard Products Group Revenues 2010 $546.6 million $525.6 million $467.9 million $773.3 million 2009 $400.9 million $409.0 million $393.0 million $566.0 million 2008 $486.3 million $519.8 million $462.8 million $585.9 million Primary product function Power management and sensor interface for advanced automotive systems. Power management for V CORE , DDR Memory and chipsets. Custom solutions, ranging from ultra-low power to high voltage offerings, serving a broad range of markets and customer needs. Power switching, signal conditioning and protection in a broad range of products. Types of product Mixed-signal and high voltage sensor interface, low-dropout (LDOs), power drivers, transceivers, integrated systems, Voltage regulators, Ignition IGBTs, Low, medium and high voltage MOSFETs. V CORE controllers, DDR memory controllers, audio and video ICs, AC-DC conversion ICs. Application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and application-specific standard products (ASSP) solutions using analog, digital signal processing, mixed-signal, and advanced logic capabilities; image sensor products including contact image sensors and light sensors; FPGA conversions; clock management and phase lock loop (PLLs); electromagnetic interference (EMI) protection and optimization products. ESD protection, TVS Zeners, EMI filtering, MicroIntegration, small signal transistors, bipolar power transistors, small signal diodes, zener diodes thyristors, rectifiers, LED drivers, configurable analog and non-volatile memory products. Representative original equipment manufacturer customers and end-users Continental Automotive Flextronics Boston Scientific Samsung Hella KG Celestica Honeywell Delta Flextronics Seagate General Electric Flextronics Delphi Sony Ericsson Starkey Laboratories LG Seagate Samsung Alcatel-Lucent Apple Jabil Jabil Schneider / Merlin Gerin Jabil Valeo Motorola Raytheon Motorola Motorola LG Huawei Technology Continental Automotive Huawei Technology Delta ZTE Seagate Magneti Marelli Delphi Indigo Systems / FLIR Sony Ericsson See Note 16: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for other information regarding our segments and the income derived therefrom. Automotive and Power Group We are a well recognized global supplier of power management analog products, power MOSFETs and mixed-signal sensor interface products for the automotive, computing and portable markets. We have a diverse portfolio in a variety of major product categories, which include: automotive-grade LDO voltage regulators, automotive-grade drivers, automotive-grade ignition IGBTs and MOSFETs, and power MOSFETs, LDOs and voltage regulators for computing, portable and automotive applications. The proliferation of electronic content in automobiles (the value of the electronic content now exceeds that of the metal in many cars) has induced tremendous stress on the existing 12 volt electrical infrastructure. Power efficiency and exceptionally low power drain modes have now become a critical automotive issue as more and more electronic features exist. In addition, computing remains a vibrant market as energy efficient VRM solutions are developed for netbook, notebook and desktop devices. Computing and Consumer Products As computing platforms, both desktop and portable, evolve from data-processing systems (database manipulation, word processing and spreadsheets) to signal processing systems (audio, video, and wireless communications), the core processors need to be more and more powerful. More powerful processors in turn require more efficient power supplies and more efficient use of power on the motherboard and subsequent peripherals. The Computing & Consumer Products Group is focused on delivering power efficient analog IC solutions for power management in VCORE, DDR, and chipsets for audio, video, and 8 Table of Contents graphics processing subsystems. Additionally, we provide efficient AC-DC conversion solutions for the power supplies in computing and consumer applications. We believe our success in these markets is attributable to our superior technology, and manufacturing and supply chain capabilities, which are needed to serve this high-volume market. Digital and Mixed-Signal Products Group The Digital and Mixed-Signal Products Group designs and develops analog, mixed-signal and advanced logic ASIC and ASSP solutions for the medical, military/aerospace, consumer and industrial markets. Our Medical Products business develops ASICs and ASSPs used in defibrillators, pacemakers, neurostimulators, hearing health applications, glucose meters and patient monitoring products as well as consumer and industrial audio products. These offerings leverage our ultra-low-power DSP and SRAM expertise and mixed-signal, firmware/software, algorithm system design and miniaturized packaging capabilities to provide best-in-class power efficiency. The Custom Industrial and Timing Products business is focused on mixed-signal ASICs and ASSPs for industrial, medical imaging, computing and consumer applications as well as clock and timing management products for industrial, communications and consumer applications. Our PureEdge TM phase lock loop (PLL) family includes low noise jitter clock synthesizers and clock modules that are targeted at replacing traditional crystal oscillators. Our product portfolio also includes capabilities in active electromagnetic interference (EMI) protection and optimization utilizing advanced spread-spectrum clocking technology. Our Digital ASIC, Mil/Aero and Image Sensors business specializes in mid-range (above 90 nm) standard-cell ASICs and FPGA conversions for the military/aerospace, industrial, communications, computing and consumer markets. The image sensor products business also develops ambient light sensors, proximity sensors, and CMOS linear contact image sensors (die and module form) to support various industrial and consumer applications. Finally, our Custom Foundry business, in addition to offering Integrated Passive Device technology, leverages ON Semiconductors broad range of manufacturing, IC design, package and silicon technology offerings to provide flexible, turnkey foundry solutions and manufacturing services for fabless semiconductor companies and original equipment manufacturers. Standard Products Group We serve a broad base of end-user markets, including consumer electronics, computing, wireless and wired communications, automotive electronics, industrial electronics and medical via four major discrete semiconductor technology categories: diodes and transistors, configurable analog products, LED drivers and non-volatile memories (EEPROMs). The wide array of discrete and integrated semiconductor products that we offer within these categories perform multiple application functions, including power switching, signal conditioning, circuit protection, signal amplification and voltage reference functions. The consumer trends driving growth within our end-user markets are primarily the demand for greater functionality in small handheld devices, faster data transmission rates in all communications applications and higher efficiency in all power applications. The new technologies being developed to support these market trends include lower capacitance protection and integrated signal conditioning products to support faster data transmission rates, micro packages for multiple handheld applications and switching and rectification technologies that allow for high efficiency energy usage and conversion. We offer serial EEPROM products in a wide range of densities for data parameter storage in a wide range of electronic products across multiple market segments. Our LED drivers are used in color LCD screen applications to ensure uniform brightness and color purity, while minimizing power consumption in cell phones, digital cameras, MP3 music players, portable gaming consoles, personal digital assistants, industrial instrumentation, 9 Table of Contents automotive instrument clusters and home appliances. Our configurable analog products include our Quantum Charge Programmable microcontroller supervisors and precision analog voltage references designed with patented post-packaging programmability to provide customers with custom voltage programming for a very wide range of industrial and consumer electronic products. Additional configurable analog products include microcontroller supervisors with on-board EEPROM to ensure safe, sustained operation of electronic products and allow them to recover more efficiently from power disruptions; Digitally Programmable Potentiometers (DPP), which replace mechanical potentiometers used to fine tune and trim electronic circuitry in a variety of applications like interactive game consoles, digital cameras and optical transceivers; DC- DC converters and low drop-out regulators for battery-powered products; and bus products used in a wide range of electronic products to connect the digital control bus to the external user interface. Customers We have been doing business with 47 of our 50 largest customers for more than five years. Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain certain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply but do not require minimum purchase commitments. Most of our original equipment manufacturer customers negotiate pricing terms with us on an annual basis near the end of the calendar year, while our other customers, including electronic manufacturer service providers, generally negotiate pricing terms with us on a quarterly basis. Our products are ultimately purchased for use in a variety of end-markets, including computing, automotive electronics, consumer electronics, industrial electronics, wireless communications, networking, military aerospace and medical. Sales to customers of 10% or more of revenues were as follows: Avnet, Inc. 13% in 2010 and 11% in 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, we expect to add approximately 67 new customers, most of which are Japan based. In addition, there are 11 significant SANYO Semiconductor customers that were also our customers prior to the merger, with which we expect an expanded relationship. SANYO Semiconductors top 10 customers include such well known names as Panasonic, Sony, SANYO Electric, Nintendo, Fujitsu, Cannon, Sharp, Samsung, LG and Delta. On a post integration basis, the largest SANYO Semiconductor customer is not expected to exceed more than 6% of our total consolidated revenues on a fiscal year basis. Additionally, we anticipate offering both SANYO Semiconductor and existing ON Semiconductor products and technologies to all worldwide customers. We generally warrant that products sold to our customers will, at the time of shipment, be free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain exceptions, our standard warranty extends for a period that is the greater of (i) three years from the date of shipment or (ii) the period of time specified in the customers standard warranty (provided that the customers standard warranty is stated in writing and extended to purchasers at no additional charge). Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. For additional information regarding agreements with our customers, see Backlog below. 10 Table of Contents End Markets for Our Products The following table sets forth our principal end-user markets, the estimated percentage (based in part on information provided by our distributors and electronic manufacturing service providers) of our revenues generated from each end-user market during 2010, sample applications for our products and representative original equipment manufacturer customers and end users. Computing Consumer Electronics Automotive Electronics Industrial Electronics Wireless Communications Networking Military and Aerospace Medical Approximate percentage of our 2010 revenues 25% 17% 20% 17% 11% 4% 2% 4% Sample applications Computer monitors DVD players, cable decoders, set-top boxes and satellite receivers 4 wheel drive controllers Industrial automation and control systems Cellular phones (analog and digital) Routers and switches Cockpit displays Medical imaging Disk drives Home security systems Airbags Lamp ballasts (power systems for fluorescent lights) Pagers Fiber optic networking Guidance systems Cardiac Rhythm Management PC motherboards Photocopiers Antilock braking systems Large household appliances Wireless modems and wireless local area networks Cellular base stations and infrastructure Munitions Glucose Monitoring Notebook power supplies Scanners Automatic door locks and windows Electric motor controllers Ethernet cards and other network controllers Infrared imaging Hearing aids and Cochlear implants Small household appliances Automatic transmissions Power supplies for manufacturing equipment High speed modems (cable, xDSL and ISDN) Portable Communication Devices Defibrillators Smartcards Automotive entertainment systems Surge protectors PBX telephone systems Aircraft Networking and Compute Engines Neurostimulators TVs, VCRs and other audio-visual equipment Engine management and ignition systems Thermostats for industrial and consumer applications Network controllers Aircraft Communication Power supplies for consumer electronics Fuel injection systems Automatic test equipment GPS and other navigation systems LIN/CAN multiplexing 11 Table of Contents Computing Consumer Electronics Automotive Electronics Industrial Electronics Wireless Communications Networking Military and Aerospace Medical Representative original equipment manufacturer customers and end user DELTA ELEC INTL LTD MICROSOFT HELLA KG DELTA ELEC INTL LTD SAMSUNG ELEC CO. ALCATEL RAYTHEON CO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY SAMSUNG ELEC CO. CONTINENTAL AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS INDIVIDUAL COMPANIES SONY ERICSSON ZTE HONG KONG LTD AEROFLEX STARKEY LABORATORIES HEWLETT PACKARD CO LG ELECTRONICS CAS-FORMER SIEMENS VDO KIONIX INC LG ELECTRONICS CISCO ROCKWELL COLLINS GENERAL ELECTRIC CO EMERSON ELECTRIC CO ECHOSTAR DELPHI FLIR SYSTEMS HUAWEI TECH CO., LTD. ERICSSON ITT CORPORATION ST JUDE MEDICAL SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC XEROX CORP CAS-FORMER MOTOROLA AUTOMOTIVE EMERSON ELECTRIC CO MOTOROLA NOKIA SIEMENS NETWORKS STELLAR MICROELECTRONICS MEDTRONIC DELL COMPUTER SCIENTIFIC ATLANTA VISTEON SIEMENS INDUSTRIAL ZTE HONG KONG LTD NORTEL NETWORKS SOFRADIR CARDIAC PACEMAKERS INC LG ELECTRONICS SONY CORP BOSCH GMBH HONEYWELL INC AMKOR TECHNOLOGY INC DELTA ELEC INTL LTD HONEYWELL INC ELA MEDICAL SAMSUNG ELEC CO. PHILIPS VALEO TYCO INTERNATIONAL KYOCERA FOXCONN L-3 COMMUNICATIONS INTRICON CORP SURFACE MOUNT TECHNOLOGY WHIRLPOOL CORP TRW INC BELIMO AUTOMATION AG V.TECH ADTRAN INC BRITISH AEROSPACE PHILIPS LITE-ON ELECTRONICS, INC AP SAGEM COMMUNICATIONS MAGNETI MARELLI LANDIS & GYR AG GIGASET COMMUNICATIONS TELLABS INC DRS ABBOTT LABS Original Equipment Manufacturers Direct sales to original equipment manufacturers accounted for approximately 46% of our revenues in 2010, 47% of our revenues in 2009 and 49% of our revenues in 2008. These customers include a variety of companies in the electronics industry such as Motorola, Delta, Hewlett-Packard, Samsung, Siemens, Nokia, Intel, and Sony, and in the automotive industry include Continental Automotive Systems, Delphi, TRW and Visteon. We focus on three types of original equipment manufacturers: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. Large multi-nationals and selected regional accounts, which are significant in specific markets, are our core original equipment manufacturer customers. The target market customers in the communications, power management and standard analog and the high frequency clock and data management markets are original equipment manufacturers that are on the leading edge of specific technologies and provide direction for technology and new product development. Generally, our original equipment manufacturer customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Distributors Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 45% of our revenues in 2010, 42% of our revenues in 2009 and 40% of our revenues in 2008. Our distributors, which include Arrow, Avnet, EBV Elektronik, Future, and World Peace, resell to mid-sized and smaller original equipment manufacturers and to electronic manufacturing service providers and other companies. Sales to distributors are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Under certain agreements, distributors are allowed to return any product that we have removed from our price book. In addition, agreements with our distributors typically contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. However, since we defer recognition of revenue and gross profit on sales to distributors until the distributor resells the product, due to our inability to reasonably estimate up front the effect of the returns and allowances with these distributors, sales returns have minimal impact on our results of operations. Electronic Manufacturing Service Providers Direct sales to electronic manufacturing service providers accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues in 2010, 11% of our revenues in 2009 and 11% of our revenues in 2008. Our largest electronic manufacturing service customers are Flextronics, Jabil and Celestica. These customers are manufacturers who typically provide contract manufacturing services for original equipment manufacturers. Originally, these companies were involved primarily in the assembly of printed circuit boards, but they now typically provide design, supply management and manufacturing solutions as well. Many original equipment manufacturers now outsource a large part of their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers in order to focus on their core competencies. We are pursuing a number of strategies to penetrate this increasingly important marketplace. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for revenues by geographic locations. 12 Table of Contents Manufacturing Operations We operate our manufacturing facilities either directly or through a joint venture. Seven of these facilities are front-end wafer sites located in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, and the United States, and five of such facilities are back-end assembly and test sites located in China, Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand. In addition to these manufacturing and assembly operations, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic manufactures silicon wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint venture, as well as the reporting segments that use these facilities. Such information does not account for the recent acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor. The sizes of the locations represent the approximate gross square footage of each sites building and include, among other things, manufacturing, laboratory, warehousing, office, utility, support and unused areas. Location Products Size (sq. ft.) Front-end Facilities: Phoenix, Arizona Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 1,260,000 Gresham, Oregon LSI Foundry of VLSI Digital Logical Products and Computing Products 518,000 Pocatello, Idaho Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group 443,000 Roznov, Czech Republic Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products and Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group 237,000 Aizu, Japan Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 289,500 Oudenaarde, Belgium. Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Automotive and Power Group 167,900 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-2) Automotive and Power Group, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 81,200 Back-end Facilities: Leshan, China Automotive and Power Group, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 363,000 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-1) Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 309,300 Calamba, Philippines Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Automotive and Power Group 200,600 Carmona, Philippines Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products, Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group and Standard Products 222,500 Bangkok, Thailand Standard Products 9,000 Other Facilities: Roznov, Czech Republic Automotive and Power Group, Computing and Consumer Products and Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group 405,300 Santa Clara, California Standard Products 42,000 Burlington, Canada Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group 95,400 13 Table of Contents We operate an assembly and test operations facility in Leshan, China. This facility is owned by a joint venture company, Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited (Leshan), of which we own a majority of the outstanding equity interests. Our investment in Leshan has been consolidated in our financial statements. Our joint venture partner, Leshan Radio Company Ltd., is formerly a state-owned enterprise. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, requests for production capacity are made to the board of directors of Leshan by each shareholder of the joint venture. Each request represents a purchase commitment by the requesting shareholder, provided that the shareholder may elect to pay the cost associated with the unused capacity (which is generally equal to the fixed cost of the capacity) in lieu of satisfying the commitment. We committed to purchase 70% of Leshans production capacity in 2010, 73% in 2009 and 75% in 2008 and are currently committed to purchase approximately 70% of Leshans expected production capacity in 2011. In 2010, we incurred no underutilization charges. In 2009, we incurred $2.7 million in underutilization charges. In 2008, we incurred $0.8 million in underutilization charges. As part of our manufacturing agreements with Leshan, we supply die used in the production process. The Leshan facility is one of our lowest cost manufacturing operations. In June 2002, we obtained approval from the Chinese government for the Leshan joint venture to invest up to $231 million in semiconductor operations, which is in addition to the $278 million originally approved. In 2004, we committed to make capital contributions of approximately $25 million to this joint venture by 2012, subject to market conditions. As of December 31, 2010 we had made capital contributions of approximately $16.4 million to this joint venture. We have the ability to time these expenditures at our discretion to meet market demand. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of finished goods. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts. In some cases, longer-term commitments are required in the early stages of the relationship. These contract manufacturers, including Unisem, ASE, KEC, MagnaChip, Phenitec, Amkor and PSI, accounted for approximately 29%, 25% and 31% of our manufacturing costs in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, we have gained various process and packaging capabilities in various sites in Japan as well as back end assembly and test facilities in the Philippines, China, Thailand and Vietnam. We expect to consolidate SANYO Semiconductors Japanese manufacturing facilities from five sites down to two sites, resulting in a footprint of roughly 2 million square feet in fabrication space and approximately 0.4 million in assembly and test space. Outside of Japan we currently own or lease through SANYO Semiconductor and its subsidiaries approximately 2.3 million square feet of production space. Much of the reductions in assembly and test activities in Japan will be transferred into our existing SANYO Semiconductor or ON Semiconductor facilities. We expect to continue the existing SANYO Semiconductor plan to shutdown the assembly and test production in their Taiwan and Hong Kong manufacturing locations. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources generally on a just-in-time basis, and material agreements with our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations are reflected in our table showing commitments, contingencies and indemnities in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this report. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials we use are currently and will continue to be available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 14 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing and Distribution As of December 31, 2010, our global sales and marketing organization consisted of approximately 633 professionals operating out of approximately 45 offices which serve customers in 67 countries. We support our customers through logistics organizations and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution channels further support our customers needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective internet-based applications support from our laboratories in the Czech Republic, China and the United States. Through on-line connectivity, applications developed in one region of the world are now instantaneously available to all other regions. We continue to monitor our freight and logistical support operations for potential cost savings. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, we gained nine sales offices within Japan, along with sales offices in nine different countries throughout Europe, North America and Asia. We expect to continue using the existing SANYO Semiconductor sales channels to sell the SANYO Semiconductor products. Additionally, we anticipate offering both SANYO Semiconductor and ON Semiconductor products and technologies to all worldwide customers. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights We market our products under our registered trademark ON Semiconductor and our ON logo. We own rights to a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property directly related to and important to our business. In connection with our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us, as the case may be, certain intellectual property to support and continue the operation of our business. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 1,342 U.S. and foreign patents and approximately 1,132 patent applications pending worldwide. Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2029. None of our patents that expire in the near future materially affect our business. Additionally, we have rights to more than 300 registered and common law trademarks. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our intellectual property rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. As part of the recapitalization, Motorola assigned to us approximately 295 U.S. patents and patent applications, approximately 292 foreign patents and patent applications, rights to over 50 trademarks previously used in connection with our products, rights in know-how relating to at least 39 semiconductor fabrication processes and rights in specified copyrightable materials. In addition, Motorola licensed on a nonexclusive, royalty-free basis other patent, trademark, copyright and know-how rights used in connection with our then existing products and products contemplated in our long-range plans. We have perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide rights under Motorolas patent portfolio and other intellectual property, existing as of the date of our recapitalization or created in the five years thereafter (the five-year period existing only with respect to patents), as necessary to manufacture, market and sell our then existing and long-range plan product lines. Additionally, Motorola provided us with a limited indemnity umbrella to protect us from certain infringement claims by third parties who had granted Motorola licenses as of the date of our recapitalization, which assisted us in developing our own patent position and licensing program. Through these arrangements, we have the right to use a significant amount of Motorola-owned technology used in connection with the products we currently offer. In connection with our acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, we obtained approximately 1,214 U.S. patents, 1,212 Japanese patents and 1,919 other foreign patents granted, with approximately 583 U.S. pending patents, 1,648 Japanese pending patents and 1,024 other foreign pending patents, for a total of 7,446 granted and pending patents acquired. These patents have expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2029. SANYO Electric has provided us with an indemnity umbrella to protect us from general unknown, intellectual property infringement issues, as well as certain known intellectual property infringement claims by third parties. We have the legal right, for a limited period of time, to continue the use of the SANYO Semiconductor name. 15 Table of Contents Seasonality Our revenues have been affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the seasonal trends of related end-markets. Traditionally, the seasonal trend consisted of a soft first half of the year with a stronger second half of the year for consumer products. Over the years, our products have increasingly become more consumer driven. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, this seasonal trend for consumer products was less of a driver due to the global recession, which affected demand significantly in 2009. It is unclear if and when the past pattern will return now that global economic conditions are less volatile, or whether our industry will see more traditional and predictable trends and patterns. Backlog Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders or customer agreements that are predominately booked as far as 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demands from our Electronic Data Interface customers, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. Because we record revenues on a sell-through basis, backlog comprised of orders from distributors will not result in revenues until the distributors sell the products ordered. During 2010, our backlog at the beginning of each quarter represented between 96% and 100% of actual revenues during such quarter. As manufacturing capacity utilization in the industry increases, customers tend to order products further in advance and, as a result, backlog at the beginning of a period as a percentage of revenues during such period is likely to increase. In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required for producing ordered products. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general-purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that in some cases can be integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. (See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business located elsewhere in this report.) Below we discuss the effects of competition on our four primary operating segments: Automotive and Power Group The principal methods of competition in the Automotive and Power Group are new product innovation, technical performance, quality, service and price. Our competitive strengths in this group are our strong technology and design capability, breadth of product portfolio, industry recognition as a reliable supplier, and our 16 Table of Contents existing market share in the automotive and power market segment. Our significant competitors in this market segment include Elmos Semiconductor, Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc., Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Infineon Technologies AG, National Semiconductor Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. When compared to us, several of these competitors are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and engineering resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. One specific competitive challenge this group faces is our small market share with certain Japanese automotive customers that tend to favor local suppliers for their new product designs. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor in January 2011, we expect this weakness to be mitigated. If we are not identified as a vendor in the product design phase, in most cases it is difficult to convince the manufacturer of the product to substitute our components during the production phase. Computing and Consumer Products Group The principal methods of competition in the Computing and Consumer Products Group are technical performance, total solution cost of ownership, quality and assurance of supply. Our architectures for AC-DC conversion offer a competitive total cost of ownership and power efficient performance position to compete. Our architecture for our microprocessor and DDR memory controllers offers a competitive cost of ownership and performance position to compete in the computing and consumer game console market. In addition, the breadth of our portfolio in other support functions such as DC-DC converters, over voltage protection ICs, video and audio ICs, and standard analog and logic ICs give us the opportunity to serve multiple requirements and allow customers to control their vendor lists more easily. Our significant competitors in this market include Intersil Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Texas Instruments Incorporated, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Power Integrations, Inc. When compared to us, several of these competitors are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group The principal methods of competition in the Digital and Mixed-Signal Product Group, are with other customer-specific semiconductor vendors based on design experience, manufacturing capability, depth and quality of intellectual property, ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and experience of sales and technical support personnel. Our ability to compete successfully depends on internal and external variables, both inside and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Our Medical and Custom Industrial businesses face direct competition from large diversified semiconductor suppliers that supply custom and semi-custom ICs, such as STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. The business also faces direct competition from smaller end-market-focused mixed-signal suppliers, such as Elmos Semiconductor and ZMD AG. Direct competition also comes from our target customers themselves, who may have internal IC design resources dedicated to supporting the parent. Our Timing Products business faces direct competition from clock suppliers such as Cypress Semiconductor and Integrated Device Technology, Inc., and our Digital ASIC business faces threats from FPGA vendors such as Xilinx, Inc. and Altera Corporation, as well as digital ASIC suppliers like Open-Silicon, Inc. and e-Silicon Corporation. Our primary foundry competition includes X-FAB Semiconductor Foundries AG, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd, Tower Semiconductor Ltd. and MagnaChip Semiconductor LLC. We also face indirect competition from ASSP suppliers such as Microchip Technology, Inc., whose mixed-signal microcontroller products capture low-end mixed-signal ASIC opportunities. Indirect competition also 17 Table of Contents comes from analog standard products suppliers such as Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Analog Devices, Inc. and Linear Technology Corporation whose technical performance or off-the-shelf availability may be better than what we can offer. When compared to us, several of these competitors are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Standard Products Group Our competitive strengths are in our market leading protection & filtering products, the breadth of our portfolio, our high quality, low cost structure, and supply chain management which ensures supply to key customers. In addition, our strengths include our strong intellectual property (IP) portfolio and our ability to leverage IP blocks across the Company to develop high value-added application-specific standard products (ASSPs). The principal methods of competing in our discrete semiconductor products are through new product and package innovations with enhanced performance over existing products. Of particular importance are our over voltage protection and filtering portfolios (ESD Protection, TVS Zeners), power switching and rectification products and constant current regulators (CCRs), where we enjoy significant performance advantages over our competition. Our significant competitors include Diodes Incorporated, NXP B.V., Rohm Co., Ltd., TSPS Corporation, Infineon Technologies AG, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., and Semtech Corporation. The principal methods of competition in the configurable analog products, LED drivers and EEPROMs spaces are product performance and new product innovations, where we are specifically focusing on integrating IP (e.g., EEPROM, digital potentiometer, voltage reference blocks) as building blocks to create high value-added ASSPs. Our significant competitors include Atmel Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., Microchip Technology Incorporated, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Research and Development Company-sponsored research and development costs in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $248.0 million (10.7% of revenue), $198.8 million (11.2% of revenue) and $233.9 million (11.4% of revenue), respectively. Our new product development efforts continue to be focused on building solutions in power management that appeal to customers in focused market segments and across multiple high growth applications. During 2010, research and development costs increased due to increased expense associated with ongoing research and development activities as a result of the newly acquired SDT, PulseCore and CMD businesses, increased salaries and wages due to the elimination of work furloughs or short work weeks in 2010 based upon local requirements, and an increase in performance bonuses as a result of our achievement of certain financial goals. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to emissions and discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites, and the investigation and remediation of resulting contamination. Our manufacturing facility in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a Superfund site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Motorola is actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the 18 Table of Contents State of Arizona. As part of our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola has retained responsibility for this contamination and has agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. The remaining unused property and buildings are currently being marketed for sale or lease. Our manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that this facility was operated by government-owned entities. The remediation project consists primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site with additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded. The government of the Czech Republic has agreed to indemnify us and the respective subsidiaries, subject to specified limitations, for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. Our design center in East Greenwich, Rhode Island is located on property that has localized soil contamination. When we purchased the East Greenwich facility, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Covenant Not To Sue with the State of Rhode Island. This agreement requires that remedial actions be undertaken and a quarterly groundwater monitoring program be initiated by the former owners of the property. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. As a result of the acquisition of AMIS, we are a primary responsible party to an environmental remediation and cleanup at AMISs former corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Costs incurred by AMIS include implementation of the clean-up plan, operations and maintenance of remediation systems, and other project management costs. However, AMISs former parent company, a subsidiary of Nippon Mining, contractually agreed to indemnify AMIS and us for any obligation relating to environmental remediation and cleanup at this location. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 410-Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations, we have not offset the receivable from Nippon Minings subsidiary against the estimated liability on the consolidated balance sheets. Therefore, a receivable from Nippon Minings subsidiary is recorded on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 related to this matter. We do not believe that the liability and receivable amounts are material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We do not expect the cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and liability for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 14,307 employees of which 2,598 employees are in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our foreign employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are represented by workers councils. Of the total number of our employees as of December 31, 2010, approximately 11,626 were engaged in manufacturing and information services, approximately 855 were engaged in our sales and marketing organization which includes customer service, approximately 465 were engaged in administration and approximately 1,361 were engaged in research and development. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, our employee base will increase by approximately 6,000 full time employees. Another approximately 2,000 people employed by SANYO Electric are seconded to SANYO Semiconductor for varying periods of time to allow for the orderly consolidation or transition of the current SANYO Semiconductor activities. 19 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 18, 2011 is set forth below. Name Age Position Keith D. Jackson 55 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director* Donald A. Colvin 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer* Robert Charles Mahoney 61 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing* William John Nelson, PhD 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Environmental Officer* George H. Cave 53 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer and Corporate Secretary* William M. Hall 55 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group* Bob Klosterboer 50 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Digital and Mixed Signal Product Group* William A. Schromm 52 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Computing and Consumer Products Group* Michael A. Williams 44 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Automotive and Power Group* * Executive Officers of both ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Keith D. Jackson . Mr. Jackson was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in November 2002. Mr. Jackson has over 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. Before joining ON Semiconductor, he was with Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, serving as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Groups, beginning in 1998, and, more recently, was head of its Integrated Circuits Group. From 1996 to 1998, he served as President and a member of the board of directors of Tritech Microelectronics in Singapore, a manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products. From 1986 to 1996, Mr. Jackson worked for National Semiconductor Corporation, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He also held various positions at Texas Instruments Incorporated, including engineering and management positions, from 1973 to 1986. Mr. Jackson has served on the board of directors of the Semiconductor Industry Association since 2008. Donald A. Colvin . Mr. Colvin joined ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC as the Senior Financial Director in March 2003 and currently serves as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before joining the Company, beginning in 1998, he served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Atmel Corporation, a manufacturer of advanced semiconductors. Mr. Colvin served as Chief Financial Officer of a subsidiary of Atmel from 1995 to 1998. From 1985 to 1995, he held various positions with European Silicon Structures, most recently as Chief Financial Officer. He held various financial positions with Motorola Semiconductors Europe from 1977 to 1985. Mr. Colvin holds a B.A. in Economics and an M.B.A. from the University of Strathclyde, Scotland. From May 2007 to the present, Mr. Colvin has served as a member of the board of directors of Applied Micro Circuits Corporation. Robert Charles Mahoney . Mr. Mahoney joined the Company in November 2002 and has served in various positions. Most recently, in June 2006, he was appointed as Executive Vice President for Sales and Marketing for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Mahoney has over 20 years of semiconductor industry experience in sales and sales management. From May 2006 through June 2006, Mr. Mahoney served as the interim Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales for the Company. From August 2004 through April 2006, he served as the Vice President of North America Sales, Computing Segment Sales and Sales Operations, and from November 2002 through August 2004 he served as the Companys Vice President of Global Distribution and Electronic Manufacturing Services Industry. Before joining the Company, Mr. Mahoney was Vice President of World Wide 20 Table of Contents Sales at Xicor Semiconductor from October 2001 until November 2002 and Vice President of Strategic Accounts at Altera Corporation from May 2000 until October 2001. During his career, he has also held sales management roles at Analog Devices, Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. William John Nelson, Ph.D . Dr. Nelson joined the Company in May 2007 and serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. In May 2009 Dr. Nelson was appointed as Chief Environmental Officer for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Dr. Nelson has more than 26 years of experience in the semiconductor industry. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Dr. Nelson was Chief Executive Officer of 1st Silicon, where he was responsible for day-to-day operations, including worldwide manufacturing, sales, marketing and product development. From 1990 to 2002, Dr. Nelson served in several executive positions with General Instrument/General Semiconductor, including as Chief Operations Officer and President of the companys Asia-Pacific operation. Dr. Nelsons industry experience also includes key positions at General Instrument, Unitrode, Fairchild Semiconductor and Analog Devices. Dr. Nelson earned both a Bachelor of Science degree with honors and a PhD in physics from the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland. George H. Cave . Mr. Cave has served as the General Counsel of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC since August 1999. He also currently serves as a Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer for the Company. Mr. Caves professional career spans over 25 years of broad legal and business experience, including working for over 18 years in the semiconductor industry. Before his tenure with ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC, he served for two years as the Regulatory Affairs Director for Motorolas Semiconductor Components Group in Geneva, Switzerland. Prior to that position, Mr. Cave was Senior Counsel in the Corporate Law Department of Motorola in Phoenix, Arizona for five years. Mr. Cave also serves as the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the American Medical College of Homeopathy. William M. Hall . Mr. Hall joined ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in May 2006 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group. During his career, Mr. Hall has held various marketing and product line management positions. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group at Fairchild Semiconductor Corp. Between March 1997 and May 2006, Mr. Hall served at different times as Vice President of Business Development, Analog Products Group, Standard Products Group, and Interface and Logic Group, as well as serving as Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Fairchild. He has also held management positions with National Semiconductor Corp. and was a RADAR design engineer with RCA. Robert A. Klosterboer . Mr. Klosterboer joined the Company in March 2008 and currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Digital & Mixed-Signal Product Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. He has more than two decades of experience in the electronics industry. During his career, Mr. Klosterboer has held various engineering, marketing and product line management positions and responsibilities. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor in 2008, Mr. Klosterboer was Senior Vice President, Automotive & Industrial Group for AMI Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Klosterboer joined AMIS in 1982 as a test engineer and during his tenure there he also was a design engineer, field applications engineer, design section manager, program development manager, and product marketing manager. Mr. Klosterboer holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering technology from Montana State University. William A. Schromm . Mr. Schromm has been with the Company since August 1999 and as of May 2006, serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Computing and Consumer Products Group for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Schromm has over 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. During his tenure with the Company he has held various positions. From December 2005 through May 2006, he served as the Vice President and General Manager of the High Performance Analog Division and also led the Analog Products Group. Beginning in January 2003, he served as Vice President of the Clock and Data Management business and continued in that role with additional product responsibilities when this business became the High Performance Analog Division in August 2004. Prior to that, he served as the Vice President of Tactical Marketing from July 2001 through December 2002, after leading the Companys Standard Logic Division since August 1999. 21 Table of Contents Michael A. Williams . Mr. Williams has been with the Company since August 1999 and has served in various capacities and effective as of May 2006, as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Automotive and Power Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Williams has over 20 years of semiconductor industry experience. Prior to his present position, within the Analog Products Group of the Company, he served as Vice President from February 2005 until May 2006, Director from 2002 through 2004, Product Manager from 2000 through 2002 and Technology Introduction Manager before 2000. The present term of office for the officers named above will generally expire on the earliest of their retirement, resignation or removal. There is no family relationship among any such officers. Geographical Information For certain geographic operating information, see Note 8: Income Taxes and Note 16: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in each case, as included elsewhere in this report. For information regarding other aspects of risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Available Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website is www.onsemi.com . You may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at their Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as believes, estimates, expects, projects, may, will, intends, plans, or anticipates, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations and estimates, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Among these factors are, as discussed more below, our revenues and operating performance, poor economic conditions and markets (including the current credit and financial conditions), the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, availability of raw materials, competitors actions, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses, significant litigation, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions (including the recently 22 Table of Contents completed SANYO Transaction (defined below)), risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements from time to time, risks associated with our international operations, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards (including pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business From time to time, we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and incur additional operating losses in the future. At times our historical financial results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and during those times we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses. Although, we have recently experienced some strength in our results over the course of the past couple fiscal years, reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and other factors could adversely affect our business. In order to remain profitable, we must continue to successfully implement our business plan and examine and implement potentially advantageous cost reduction initiatives. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. On the other hand, significant upturns have led to increased customer demand for our products and the risk of not being able to meet this demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In some ways, we have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience these in the future. We cannot accurately predict the timing of the current and future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. These future conditions in the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending from time to time. The semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Reduced spending has in the past and may in the future drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which results in a negative impact on gross profit. Volatility in global economic 23 Table of Contents conditions may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we cannot accurately predict volatility or how severe and prolonged any downturn or recovery might be. In addition, to the extent we incorrectly plan for favorable economic conditions that do not materialize or take longer to materialize than expected, then our business and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Moreover, volatility in revenues as a result of a unpredictable economic conditions may alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short term and long term strategies. Furthermore, the United States and global credit markets could experience renewed financial turmoil. If the past pressures on credit were renewed or we experience an additional global downturn, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all and we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, any outstanding debt when due, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the immediate future, if our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, unanticipated global financial uncertainty affecting the financial and other markets could impact our business in a number of, other ways, including causing (1) our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases, (2) our customers difficulties in obtaining sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, (3) our key suppliers to become capacity constrained or insolvent resulting in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and (4) our key suppliers to require acceleration, or our customers to extend, additional credit commitments. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing stockholders. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We face risks resulting from the expansion of our operations through acquisitions, including but not limited to, (1) the difficulty of integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations, which will likely be geographically separated and involve separate technologies and corporate cultures; (2) risks of entering new semiconductor markets or regions of the world in which we have limited experience; (3) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies, such as SANYO Semiconductor, particularly if such company is lacking adequate financial reporting and internal control systems or possess systems that are materially different from ours; (4) the risk that our existing or prospective customers or customers of the acquired business may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions as we integrate new businesses and companies into our business, or that they may seek to change their existing business relationships; (5) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (6) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (7) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (8) negative pressure on gross margins resulting from increased operating and restructuring costs associated with the target. In addition, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with us, and as a result, we could lose key employees. These uncertainties may also impair our ability to recruit or motivate key personnel. In connection with a transaction, key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on 24 Table of Contents other equity-based compensation rights. Further, as a result of current acquisitions, such as in the SANYO Transaction (defined below), or future acquisitions, we may assume liabilities from the targets current employee benefit plans that may require us to bring plan documentation into compliance with current law including ensuring that plans are adequately funded. In connection with our acquisition activity, we are required by SEC rules and regulations to integrate newly acquired businesses into our financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements, or if they do have independent audited financial statements, such statements may not be prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, which could materially impair our ability to obtain or prepare necessary financial information concerning such businesses in a format required to allow proper integration with our systems and financials. In addition, immediately after an acquisition and until such time as we are able to fully integrate an acquired business into our financial statements, we are dependent upon the acquired business financial controls and systems for reporting and other financial information, including projections and goals for such acquired business. We may not be able to successfully prepare and file required financial statements or other financial information for the acquired business, or to integrate the acquired business into our financial controls and systems and our consolidated financial statements in a timely manner. Failure to prepare accurate financial reports for our acquired businesses in a timely manner in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could cause material inaccuracies in our financial statements and SEC filings, which could result in the necessity to restate our financials or lead to unknown liabilities and possibly result in a material impact on our stock price. The integration of newly acquired businesses will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. In particular, in connection with the Companys recent acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor and other assets related to SANYO Electrics semiconductor business (the SANYO Transaction), the integration of SANYO Semiconductor has and will continue to require significant internal and external coordination. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Moreover, even if we were able to fully integrate SANYO Semiconductors business operations and other assets successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Delays in integrating SANYO Semiconductor, which could be caused by factors outside of our control, could adversely affect the intended benefits of our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. In connection with an acquisition, it is possible that we may anticipate tax savings through integration of the newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure. As with any estimate, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. We review goodwill associated with our acquisitions for impairment on an annual basis (See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 3: Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill of the notes to our consolidated audited financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about goodwill). In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge related to our acquisition of PulseCore. In the past, we recorded goodwill impairment charges related to our acquisitions of AMIS, Cherry Semiconductor Corporation (Cherry) and the PTC Business. As of December 31, 2010, the total remaining goodwill for the Company amounted to $191.2 million. Factors we consider important that could trigger a subsequent impairment to goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and/or increased costs, we may have further material goodwill impairments. 25 Table of Contents In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our operating results. For example, in the SANYO Transaction a portion of the purchase price is financed by a seven year loan with an adjustable interest rate from SANYO Electric to SCI LLC. The loan agreement contains customary events of default as well as representations, warranties, and covenants but does not contain any financial or negative covenants. It is possible that factors outside of our control, including but not limited to increases in interest rates and loss of key customers, could adversely affect the intended benefits from the SANYO Transaction but we will continue to have a repayment obligation under the loan agreement. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization and realizing expected synergies. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. We believe that our success materially depends on our ability to maintain or improve our current margin levels related to our manufacturing. For instance, if we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. In addition, increased competition and other factors beyond our control, including economic factors, may lead to price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the future. Moreover, we believe that we will need to improve the historic margin levels of the business and assets we acquired in connection with the SANYO Transaction and successfully execute on available opportunities in order to realize the intended benefits of this transaction. While we anticipate that this acquired business will benefit from expected synergies with our business and planned restructuring, which could improve its historic margin levels, we may not be able to successfully integrate this business within our estimated timeframes (or at all) to allow it to benefit from expected synergies and planned restructuring or we may have generally overestimated the anticipated benefits of expected synergies and planned restructuring. Furthermore, SANYO Electric has agreed to provide certain operational support to SANYO Semiconductor for a period of time, which is meant to reduce SANYO Semiconductors existing operational costs to market-based costs. This operational support relates to, among other things, costs, expenses and other amounts associated with seconded employees, the services agreement, and various lease agreements. There is no guarantee that we will be able to take advantage of all of the optional support available or that, following the expiration of such operational support, margin levels of SANYO Semiconductor will have improved to the point that we are able to operate SANYO Semiconductor profitably. In addition, we expect that the SANYO Transaction will allow for cross-selling opportunities between the Company and the acquired company and its customers, but we cannot guarantee that these cross-selling opportunities will be as great as anticipated or result in synergies, as expected. Ultimately, failure to realize anticipated synergies, complete planned restructuring or executed on expected opportunities from the SANYO Transaction may lead to lower revenues and lower margins than anticipated in the future. The failure to implement, as well as the completion and impact of, our profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions, including restructuring activities, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other things, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs were primarily comprised of employee separation costs and asset impairments as well as gains on the sale of assets and insurance recoveries. 26 Table of Contents In connection with the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, we have gained various process and packaging capabilities in various sites in Japan as well as back end assembly and test facilities in the Philippines, China, Thailand and Vietnam. We expect to consolidate the Japanese manufacturing facilities from five sites down to two sites. Much of the reduction in assembly and test activities in Japan will be transferred into our existing SANYO Semiconductor or ON Semiconductor facilities. We also expect to continue the existing SANYO Semiconductor plan to shutdown the assembly and test production in their Taiwan and Hong Kong manufacturing locations. Furthermore, we currently anticipate that we will incur restructuring charges of approximately 6 billion to 7 billion ($74 million to $86 million) related to severance payments of seconded employees in connection with the shutdown of certain SANYO Semiconductor manufacturing facilities. A significant portion of these charges are expected in the first quarter of 2011. We currently expect that payments related to the restructuring will be made over the next eighteen months. We cannot assure you that future cost reduction initiatives, including the current restructuring plan for SANYO Semiconductor, will be successfully or timely implemented, or will materially impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. For additional information regarding our profitability enhancement programs and cost reduction measures, see Part II Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) further expand our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) further reduce the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) integrate newly acquired products, manufacturing capabilities and sales channels. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other things, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our intellectual property portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. Several of these and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We are committed to maintaining spending on new product development in order to stay competitive in our markets. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. The development of new products is a complex and time- consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Moreover, we may make significant investment in new products that may not be profitable or have margins as high as we have experienced historically. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to original equipment manufacturers indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for semiconductor components, is highly competitive. As a result of recent economic uncertainty, competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified, as manufacturers of semiconductor components have offered reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. 28 Table of Contents The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as from customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We, and our competitors, continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or uncertainty as a result of the acquisition and integration of manufacturing facilities acquired as a result of the SANYO Transaction, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing, information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and such capital expenditures and commitments, as well as other commitments, may materially decrease our liquidity. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. 29 Table of Contents We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. In addition, we have had and expect to have significant cash and capital expenditures related to the SANYO Transaction. For instance, we have committed a significant amount of cash on hand to cover the purchase price and other costs and expenses related to the SANYO Transaction. Although we have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to this transaction, we believe that cash flow from operating activities, coupled with the remaining cash on hand, cash equivalents and funds from external borrowings, will be adequate to operate our business and otherwise satisfy our capital needs. However, to the extent that transaction expenses exceed projections or we are unable to generate expected cash flows, our liquidity may be adversely affected and we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer term objectives related to the SANYO Transaction. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available, or if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. In the recent past, we have undertaken various and material cost reduction measures which we believe have been largely successful. However, these reductions, and any future reductions, may unintentionally affect our ability to remain competitive in efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be forced to increase our future capital expenditures in unexpected ways to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make timely and necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. If we were to lose one of our large customers our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. In addition, the integration of the business acquired in connection with the SANYO Transaction will require significant coordination and we cannot assure you that our existing customer relationships or SANYO Semiconductors current customer relationships will not be materially and adversely affected as a result of uncertainty in connection with or other factors relating to the newly combined entity. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of our raw materials increase significantly or their quality deteriorates. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon, silicon wafers, gold, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 30 Table of Contents In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt production in material ways. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Asia/Pacific region, the Americas, and Europe (including the Middle East). Similarly, we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; transportation delays; power supply shortages and shutdowns; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor laws, and other employment and labor issues; currency convertibility and repatriation; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In the last few fiscal years, we have benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our effective tax rate is uncertain on an ongoing basis. For instance, proposed income tax regulations in the United States could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, business combinations and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. 31 Table of Contents If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success, both generally and in connection with mergers and acquisitions, such as SANYO Semiconductor, depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. For example, analog component designers are difficult to attract and retain, and the failure to attract and retain analog component designers could compromise our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the market for analog components. In addition, from time to time, we have announced certain cost reductions that included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. These measures, as well as any future cost reduction measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel. As employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time. We have also issued RSUs with time-based vesting and performance based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new or amendments to equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue these types of awards. Our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various registered and unregistered intellectual property assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications and we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business, including those assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization and subsequent acquisitions, will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; the license rights granted, transferred or assigned in connection with our 1999 recapitalization or subsequent acquisitions will provide competitive advantages to us; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that were assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization or subsequent acquisitions will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party intellectual property rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses 32 Table of Contents will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for intellectual property we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of processes; or obtain licenses to the infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged intellectual property rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, including securities class action litigation that may be particularly costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider either routine matters that arise in the normal course of business or immaterial for our aggregate business operations. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor, and intellectual property. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 33 Table of Contents As mentioned above, from time to time, we have been, or may in the future be, involved in securities litigation or litigation arising from our acquisitions. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation matter in which we are a party. These types of matters are costly to defend and even if resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions will not subject us to additional litigation. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report for more information on our legal proceedings, including our pending securities class action litigation. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like most publicly-traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), which requires managements annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. We are required to incorporate SANYO Semiconductor into our internal control over financial reporting by December 31, 2012. Currently, SANYO Semiconductor is a foreign corporation and was not required to comply with SOX Section 404 requirements. The integration of SANYO Semiconductor into our internal control over financial reporting will require additional time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. We are continuing to evaluate the impact that the integration of SANYO Semiconductor following the consummation of the SANYO Transaction will have in the future on our ability to maintain internal control over financial reporting; however, there can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined companys internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including a delay in or failure to successfully integrate SANYO Semiconductor into our internal control over financial reporting following the consummation of the SANYO Transaction, or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of this transaction, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. See Part II, Item 9A