Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations under the heading Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net included elsewhere in this report for additional information on our System Solutions Group restructuring activities. On a long-term basis, we expect our System Solutions Group to benefit from access to ON Semiconductors market leading customers not previously doing business with SANYO Semiconductor in North America, Europe and China. On February 27, 2011, we acquired 100% of the CMOS ISBU from Cypress Semiconductor for $34.1 million in cash. The ISBU includes a broad portfolio of high-performance custom and standard image sensors used in multi-megapixel machine vision, linear and two dimensional (2D) bar code imaging, medical x-ray imaging, biometrics, digital photography and cinematography, and aerospace applications. The acquired products include the VITA, LUPA, STAR, and IBIS families, which are all well known throughout the industry. During 2010, we acquired 100% of SDT and CMD in all cash transactions. During 2009, we acquired 100% of PulseCore in an all cash transaction. Among other benefits, these acquisitions improved our position as a leader of certain technologies, expanded our product offerings in certain end-markets, allowed us to reach more customers and enhanced our existing product portfolio. See Note 4: Acquisitions of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for further discussion of certain of these acquisitions. Products and Technology The following provides certain information regarding our operating segments. See Business Overview above and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for other information regarding our segments and their revenues and property, plant and equipment and the income derived therefrom. Application Products Group The Application Products Group designs and develops analog, mixed-signal and advanced logic ASIC and ASSP solutions for a broad base of end-users in the automotive, consumer electronics, computing, industrial, communications, medical and military / aerospace markets. Our product solutions enable industry leading active 6 Table of Contents mode and standby mode efficiency now being demanded by regulatory agencies around the world. Additionally, the Application Products Group offers foundry and manufacturing services, including IPD technology, which leverages the Companys broad range of manufacturing, IC design, packaging and silicon technology offerings to provide flexible turn-key solutions for our customers. Certain of the Application Products Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: End-Market Certain Focused Products and Solutions Automotive electronics Energy efficient solutions that reduce emissions, improve fuel economy and safety, enhance lighting, and make possible an improved driving experience. Computing Solutions for a wide range of voltage and current options ranging from multi-phase 30 volt power for VCORE processors to single cell battery point of load. Thermal and battery charging solutions are also supported. Industrial electronics Power efficient communication and sensor interface products. Power line communication and power monitoring and switching solutions for high voltage lines down to residential applications. CMOS image sensors for high speed machine vision, space, and cinematography applications. Communications Power management products that allow lowest possible current consumption at high efficiency, RF tuning to enhance radio performance, ambient light and proximity sensing devices. Standard Products Group The Standard Products Group serves a broad base of end-user markets, including consumer electronics, computing, wireless and wired communications, automotive electronics, industrial electronics and medical via six major discrete semiconductor technology categories: diodes and transistors, analog products, LED drivers, EEPROMs, power MOSFETs and Standard Logic. The wide array of discrete and integrated semiconductor products that we offer within these categories perform multiple application functions, including power switching, signal conditioning, circuit protection, signal amplification and voltage reference functions. The trends driving growth within our end-user markets are primarily the demand for greater functionality in small hand-held devices, faster data transmission rates in all communications applications and higher efficiency in all power applications. The proliferation of electronic content in automobiles has induced tremendous stress on the existing 12 volt electrical infrastructure. Power efficiency and exceptionally low power drain modes have now become a critical automotive issue as more and more electronic features exist. The new technologies being developed to support these market trends include lower capacitance protection and integrated signal conditioning products to support faster data transmission rates, micro packages for multiple hand-held applications and switching and rectification technologies that allow for high efficiency energy usage and conversion. System Solutions Group Our System Solutions Group is a global supplier of analog and mixed signal ICs, microcontrollers, DSPs, analog and digital tuners, intelligent power modules, memory and discrete semiconductors to the automotive, communications, consumer and industrial end-markets. Our diverse product portfolio includes analog power management ICs; motor drive ICs; intelligent modules for power inversion, motor control, and automotive electronics; 8,16 and 32-bit microcontrollers; audio and video tuners; DSPs and image enhancement products supporting a broad range of applications, including automotive infotainment and motor control systems, consumer white goods, wireless communications devices (including smartphones and media tablets), LCD TVs, and digital still cameras and camcorders. The continuing transformation to make all electronics systems smart, connected and more power efficient presents a substantial opportunity to draw on our diverse product portfolio and applications expertise to provide customers with comprehensive systems solutions for their applications. We further possess unique micro-packaging capabilities that help customers meet their need to reduce device size 7 Table of Contents and weight as more semiconductor content is incorporated into electronics systems and device dimensions shrink to increase portability. Moreover, for home appliance and industrial power applications, we possess unique power assembly packaging and composite material IP, which allows our customers to improve power efficiency in their end products. These advanced packaging capabilities allow us to provide complete, fully tested solutions resulting in faster time to market for our customers. Customers In general, we have maintained long-term relationships with our key customers. Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain certain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require minimum purchase commitments. Most of our OEM customers negotiate pricing terms with us on an annual basis near the end of the calendar year, while our other customers, including electronic manufacturer service providers and distributors, generally negotiate pricing terms with us on a quarterly basis. Our products are ultimately purchased for use in a variety of end-markets, including computing, automotive electronics, consumer electronics, industrial electronics, wireless communications, networking, military aerospace and medical. For the years ended December 31, 2013, December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, we had no sales to individual customers, including distributors, that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. Prior to 2011, sales to one of our distributors, Avnet, represented 10% or more of total consolidated revenues as follows: 13% and 11% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Revenues for our Application Products Group and Standard Products Group include distributor sales to Avnet. For the year ended December 31, 2013, aggregate revenue from our five largest customers by revenue, including distributors, for our Application Products Group, Standard Products Group, and System Solutions Group comprised approximately 30% , 41% and 48% of total revenue for each respective operating segment. The loss of certain of these customers or distributors may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the respective segment. We generally warrant that products sold to our customers will, at the time of shipment, be free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain exceptions, our standard warranty extends for a period of two years. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days prior to shipment for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. For additional information regarding agreements with our customers, see Backlog below. 8 Table of Contents End-Markets for Our Products The following table sets forth our principal end-markets, the estimated percentage (based in part on information provided by our distributors and electronic manufacturing service providers) of our revenues generated from each end-market during 2013, sample applications for our products and representative OEM customers and end-users. Computing Consumer Electronics Automotive Electronics Industrial Electronics Communications Networking Mil-Aero Medical Approximate percentage of 2013 Revenue 16% 19% 27% 16% 15% 3% 1% 3% Sample applications Notebooks, Ultrabooks, & 2-in-1s Music Players & Camera Modules Fuel Economy & Emission Reduction Smart Grid & Metering Tablets Switches Cockpit Displays Hearing Devices Desktop PCs & All-in-Ones Flat TVs & Set-Top Boxes Active Safety Monitoring & Surveillance Smart Phone Routers Guidance Systems Imaging Graphics Gaming & Home Entertainment Systems Body Electronics & Lighting Motor Controls Wearables Base Stations Infrared Imaging Diagnostic, Therapy, & Monitoring Servers & Workstations White Goods Infotainment & Connectivity General LED Lighting Torch and Backlighting Network Cards Image Sensors Implantable Devices Internal & External Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Power Supplies Representative OEM customers and end-users Apple Inc. Canon Inc. Bosch GMBH Delta Electronics Apple Inc. Alcatel Lucent Aeroflex Abbot Labs Asus Echostar Continental Automotive Systems Emerson Electric Co Huawei Tech Co., Ltd. Cisco British Aerospace Boston Scientific Dell Computer LG Eletronics Delphi Flir Systems Lenovo Delta Electronics General Electric Co. ELA Medical Delta Electronics Microsoft Fujitsu Ten LTD Honeywell Inc. LG Eletronics Ericsson Honeywell Inc General Electric Co Emerson Electric Co Midea Hella KG Kionix INC Samsung Electronics Sony Mobile Huawei ITT Corporation Intricon Corp Foxconn Panasonic Corporation Magneti Marelli Landis + GYR AG Nokia Solutions and Networks L-3 Communications Medtronic Gigabyte Philips Panasonic Corporation Schneider Electic Xiaomi Inc. ZTE Hong Kong LTD Lockheed Martin Mindray Hewlett Packard Co Samsung Electronics TRW Inc Siemens Industrial ZTE Hong Kong Ltd Raytheon Co Philips Lenovo Sony Corp Valeo Tyco International Rockwell Collins St. Jude Medical Seagate Technology Whirlpool Corp Visteon Sofradir Starkey Labortories OEMs Direct sales to OEMs accounted for approximately 48% of our revenues in 2013, 55% of our revenues in 2012 and 56% of our revenues in 2011. OEM customers include a variety of companies in the electronics industry such as Continental Automotive Systems, Delta Electronics, Hella, Panasonic Corporation and Samsung Electronics. We focus on three types of OEMs: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. Large multi-nationals and selected regional accounts, which are significant in specific markets, are our core OEM customers. The target market customers for our end-markets are OEMs that are on the leading edge of specific technologies and provide direction for technology and new product development. Generally, our OEM customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. 9 Table of Contents Distributors Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 44% of our revenues in 2013, 38% of our revenues in 2012 and 37% of our revenues in 2011. Our distributors, which include Arrow, Avnet, OS Electronics, World Peace and WT Microelectronics, resell to mid-sized and smaller OEMs and to electronic manufacturing service providers and other companies. Sales to distributors are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Under certain agreements, distributors are allowed to return any product that we have removed from our price book. In addition, agreements with certain of our distributors contain stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Due to current limitations on the feasibility of estimating the up front effect of returns and allowances with these distributors, we defer recognition of revenue and gross profit on sales to these distributors until these distributors resell the product. As a result, sales returns have minimal impact on our results of operations. Electronic Manufacturing Service Providers Direct sales to electronic manufacturing service providers accounted for approximately 8% of our revenues in 2013, 7% of our revenues in 2012 and 7% of our revenues in 2011. Among our largest electronic manufacturing service customers are Benchmark Electronic, Flextronics, HK Towada Electronics, Jabil and Sanmina . These customers are manufacturers who typically provide contract manufacturing services for OEMs. Originally, these companies were involved primarily in the assembly of printed circuit boards, but they now typically provide design, supply management and manufacturing solutions as well. Many OEMs now outsource a large part of their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers in order to focus on their core competencies. We are pursuing a number of strategies to penetrate this increasingly important marketplace. Generally, our electronic manufacturing service customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for revenues by geographic locations. Manufacturing Operations We operate front-end wafer site facilities located in Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, and the United States, and back-end assembly and test site facilities located in Canada, China, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines and Vietnam. In addition to these front-end and back-end manufacturing operations, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic manufactures silicon wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. 10 Table of Contents The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint venture, as well as the reporting segments that use these facilities, along with the approximate gross square footage of each sites building which includes, among other things, manufacturing, laboratory, warehousing, office, utility, support and unused areas. Location Reporting Segment Size (sq. ft.) Front-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada (1) (2) Application Products Group 95,400 Gresham, Oregon Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 518,000 Pocatello, Idaho Application Products Group and Standard Products Group 443,000 Roznov, Czech Republic Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 237,000 Oudenaarde, Belgium Application Products Group and Standard Products Group 167,900 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-2) Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 81,200 Niigata, Japan Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 1,724,600 Back-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada (1) (2) Application Products Group 95,400 Leshan, China Application Products Group and Standard Products Group 363,000 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-1) Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 309,300 Carmona, Philippines Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 222,500 Saitama, Japan (3) System Solutions Group 377,000 Tarlac City, Philippines Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 861,100 Shenzhen, China System Solutions Group 208,000 Bien Hoa, Vietnam Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 247,572 Gunma, Japan (1) Application Products Group and System Solutions Group 59,043 Other Facilities: Roznov, Czech Republic Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group 405,300 Thuan An District, Vietnam System Solutions Group 29,063 (1) These facilities are leased. (2) This facility is used for both front-end and back-end operations with a total square footage of 95,400. (3) We have committed to a plan to close this facility during 2014. See See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations under the heading Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net included elsewhere in this report for additional information on certain of our facility closures. We operate all of our manufacturing facilities directly, with the exception of our assembly and test operations facility located in Leshan, China, which is owned by a joint venture company, Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited (Leshan), of which we own a majority of the outstanding equity interests. Our investment in Leshan has been consolidated in our financial statements. Our joint venture partner, Leshan 11 Table of Contents Radio Company Ltd., is formerly a state-owned enterprise. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, requests for production capacity are made to the board of directors of Leshan by each shareholder of the joint venture. Each request represents a purchase commitment by the requesting shareholder, provided that the shareholder may elect to pay the cost associated with the unused capacity (which is generally equal to the fixed cost of the capacity) in lieu of satisfying the commitment. We committed to purchase 70% of Leshans production capacity in 2013, 70% in 2012, 70% in 2011 and are currently committed to purchase approximately 70% of Leshans expected production capacity in 2014. We use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of finished goods. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts. In some cases, longer-term commitments are required in the early stages of the relationship. These contract manufacturers, including Amkor, ASE, GRACE/HHNEC, UMC and UTAC, accounted for approximately 26%, 23% and 23% of our manufacturing costs in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this report. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper, and lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources generally on a just-in-time basis, and material agreements with our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations are reflected in our table which shows commitments, contingencies and indemnities in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources under the heading Contractual Obligations included elsewhere in this report. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials we use are currently and will continue to be available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply, increased demand in the industry or certain other factors. Sales, Marketing and Distribution As of December 31, 2013, our global sales and marketing organization consisted of approximately 1,100 professionals, servicing customers in approximately 70 countries. We support our customers through logistics organizations and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution channels further support our customers needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective global applications support from our Technical Information Centers and Solution Engineering Centers, allowing for applications which are developed in one region of the world to be instantaneously available throughout all other regions. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights We market our products under our registered trademark ON Semiconductor and our ON logo. We own rights to a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other IP directly related to and important to our business. In connection with our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us, as the case may be, certain IP to support and continue the operation of our business. We also acquired or were licensed or sublicensed to a significant amount of IP, including patents and patent applications, in connection with our acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor. In connection with the IP received from the SANYO Semiconductor transaction, we received a limited indemnity umbrella to protect us from general unknown and certain known infringement claims from third parties. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 6,200 U.S. and foreign patents and approximately 1,600 patent applications pending worldwide. Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2033. None of our patents that expire in the near future materially affect 12 Table of Contents our business. Additionally, we have rights to more than 293 registered and common law trademarks. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our IP rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other IP rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. Seasonality Historically, our revenues have been affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the seasonal trends of related end-markets consisting of a stronger second half of the year as compared to the first half of the year. We have, in the past, experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and, in the future, could continue to experience short-term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. Backlog Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to orders that are predominantly booked as far as 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demand from our Electronic Data Interface customers, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors, including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. For those shipments to distributors who are allowed sales return rights and allowances, we record revenues on a sell-through basis. Thus, backlog comprised of orders from these distributors will not result in revenues until these distributors sell the products ordered. During 2013, our backlog at the beginning of each quarter represented between 82% and 87% of actual revenues during such quarter, which is consistent with backlog levels in recent prior periods. As manufacturing capacity utilization in the industry increases, customers tend to order products further in advance and, as a result, backlog at the beginning of a period as a percentage of revenues during such period is likely to increase. In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required for producing ordered products. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general-purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, can be integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully customized ICs, as well as customers who develop their own IC products. See Part I, Item 1A Risk FactorsTrends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business located elsewhere in this report for additional information. In comparison, several competitors noted below are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and 13 Table of Contents distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. The following discusses the effects of competition on our three operating segments: Application Products Group The principal methods of competition in the Application Products Group are with other custom semiconductor vendors based on design experience, manufacturing capability, depth and quality of IP, ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and experience of sales and technical support personnel. Our ability to compete successfully depends on internal and external variables, both inside and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Select competitors for certain of our products and solutions include: Elmos Semiconductor AG; Intersil Corporation; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; Melexis N.V.; STMicroelectronics N.V.; and Texas Instruments Inc. Standard Products Group The Standard Products Groups competitive strengths are in our market leading protection and filtering products, the breadth of our portfolio, technical performance, micro-packaging expertise, our high quality, low cost structure, and supply chain management which ensures supply to key customers. In addition, our strengths include our strong IP portfolio and our ability to leverage IP blocks across the Company to develop high value-added ASSPs. The principal methods of competing in our discrete semiconductor products are through new product and package innovations with enhanced performance over existing products. Of particular importance are our transient voltage protection and filtering portfolios (ESD Protection and Common Mode Filters), power switching and rectification products, where we believe we enjoy significant performance advantages over our competition. Select competitors for certain of our products include: Diodes Incorporated; Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; KEC Corporation; NXP B.V.; Rohm Co., Ltd.; Semtech Corporation; STMicroelectronics N.V.; and Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. System Solutions Group The principal methods of competition for the System Solutions Group are technical performance, quality, service and price. Our competitive strengths are strong technology and design capability, breadth of product portfolio, systems design expertise and long-standing supply relationships with leading OEM customers. Select competitors for certain of our products include: Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc.; International Rectifier Corporation; Mitsubishi Electric; NXP B.V.; Renasas Electronics Corporation; Rohm Co. Ltd.; Sanken Electric; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Texas Instruments Incorporated; and Toshiba Corporation. 14 Table of Contents Research and Development Company-sponsored research and development costs in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $334.2 million (12.0% of revenue), $367.5 million (12.7% of revenue) and $362.5 million (10.5% of revenue), respectively. Our new product development efforts continue to be focused on building solutions in power management that appeal to customers in focused market segments and across multiple high growth applications. During 2013, research and development costs decreased as a result of restructuring activities in our System Solutions Group. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to emissions and discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites, and the investigation and remediation of resulting contamination. Our headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a Superfund site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Motorola and now Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale) have been actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the State of Arizona. As part of our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola retained responsibility for this contamination and Motorola and Freescale have agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. Our former manufacturing location in Aizu, Japan is located on property where soil and ground water contamination has been detected. We believe that the contamination originally occurred during a time when the facility was operated by a prior owner. We have been working with local authorities to implement remediation actions and expect all remaining remediation costs to be covered by insurance. Based on information available, any net costs to us in connection with this matter are not expected to be material. Our manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that this facility was operated by government-owned entities. The remediation project consists primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site, with additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded. The government of the Czech Republic has agreed to indemnify us and the respective subsidiaries, subject to specified limitations, for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. Our design center in East Greenwich, Rhode Island is located on property that has localized soil contamination. When we purchased the East Greenwich facility, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Covenant Not To Sue with the State of Rhode Island. This agreement requires that remedial actions be undertaken and a quarterly groundwater monitoring program be initiated by the former owners of the property. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. As a result of the acquisition of AMIS in 2008, we are a primary responsible party to an environmental remediation and cleanup at AMISs former corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Costs incurred by AMIS include implementation of the clean-up plan, operations and maintenance of remediation systems, and other project management costs. However, AMISs former parent company, a subsidiary of Nippon Mining contractually agreed to indemnify AMIS and us for any obligation relating to environmental remediation and cleanup at this location. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any future costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We do not expect the cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and liability for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material 15 Table of Contents adverse effect on our business or prospects. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 22,000 employees worldwide, of which approximately 2,300 employees were in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our foreign employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements (i.e., Japan and Belgium) or similar arrangements or are represented by workers councils. For information regarding employee risk associated with our international operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk FactorsTrends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Of the total number of our employees as of December 31, 2013, approximately 18,100 were engaged in manufacturing, approximately 1,100 were engaged in our sales and marketing organization which includes customer service, approximately 700 were engaged in administration and approximately 2,100 were engaged in research and development. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 18, 2014 is set forth below. Name Age Position Keith D. Jackson 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director* Bernard Gutmann 54 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer* Paul E. Rolls 51 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing* George H. Cave 56 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer and Corporate Secretary* William M. Hall 58 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group* Robert A. Klosterboer 53 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Application Products Group* Mamoon Rashid 54 Senior Vice President and General Manager, System Solutions Group* * Executive Officers of both ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. The present term of office for the officers named above will generally expire on the earliest of their retirement, resignation or removal. There is no family relationship among such officers. Keith D. Jackson . Mr. Jackson was elected as a Director of ON Semiconductor and appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in November 2002. Mr. Jackson has over 31 years of semiconductor industry experience. Before joining ON Semiconductor, he was with Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, serving as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Groups, beginning in 1998, and, more recently, was head of its Integrated Circuits Group. From 1996 to 1998, he served as President and a member of the board of directors of Tritech Microelectronics in Singapore, a manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products. From 1986 to 1996, Mr. Jackson worked for National Semiconductor Corporation, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He also held various positions at Texas Instruments Incorporated, including engineering and management positions, from 1973 to 1986. Mr. Jackson joined the board of directors of Veeco Instruments, Inc. in February 2012, and has served on the board of directors of the Semiconductor Industry Association since 2008. 16 Table of Contents Bernard Gutmann . Mr. Gutmann was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in September 2012 and has served as ON Semiconductors and SCI LLCs Treasurer since January 2013. Before his promotion, he worked with the corporation as Vice President, Corporate Analysis & Strategy of SCI LLC, serving in that position from April 2006 to September 2012. Mr. Gutmann also served and continues to serve as the Chief Financial Officer of SANYO Semiconductor (now known as the System Solutions Group), a position he has held since March 2011. In these roles, his responsibilities have included finance integration, financial reporting, restructuring, tax, treasury, and financial planning and analysis. From November 2002 to April 2006, Mr. Gutmann served as Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis and Treasury of SCI LLC. From September 1999 to November 2002, he held the position of Director, Financial Planning & Analysis of SCI LLC. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Gutmann served in various financial positions with Motorola, Inc. from 1982 to 1999, including controller of various divisions and an off-shore wafer and backend factory, finance and accounting manager, financial planning manager and financial analyst. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Management Engineering from Worchester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts (U.S.). Additionally, he is fluent in English, French, Spanish, and conversant in German. Paul E. Rolls . Mr. Rolls was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in July 2013 to replace his retiring predecessor. Before his promotion, he served as Senior Vice President Japan Sales and Marketing and Senior Vice President of Global Sales Operations, serving in that position from October 2012 to July 2013. Mr. Rolls has more than 25 years of technology sales, and sales management and operations experience, with more than 18 years of sales and sales management experience in the semiconductor industry. Before joining the company, Mr. Rolls was the Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Integrated Device Technology, Inc. from January 2010 to April 2012. From August 1996 to December 2009, he held multiple sales positions at International Rectifier Corp., most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Sales. During his career, he has also held management roles at Compaq Computer Corporation. George H. Cave . Mr. Cave has served as the General Counsel of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC since August 1999. He also currently serves as a Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer for the Company. Mr. Caves professional career spans over 28 years of broad legal and business experience, including working for over 21 years in the semiconductor industry. Before his tenure with ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC, he served for two years as the Regulatory Affairs Director for Motorolas Semiconductor Components Group in Geneva, Switzerland. Prior to that position, Mr. Cave was Senior Counsel in the Corporate Law Department of Motorola in Phoenix, Arizona for five years. Mr. Cave also serves as the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the American Medical College of Homeopathy. William M. Hall . Mr. Hall joined the Company in May 2006 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. During his career, Mr. Hall has held various marketing and product line management positions. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group at Fairchild Semiconductor Corp. Between March 1997 and May 2006, Mr. Hall served at different times as Vice President of Business Development, Analog Products Group, Standard Products Group, and Interface and Logic Group, as well as serving as Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Fairchild. He has also held management positions with National Semiconductor Corp. and was a RADAR design engineer with RCA. Robert A. Klosterboer . Mr. Klosterboer joined the Company in March 2008 and currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Application Products Group for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. From March 2008 to September 2012, he was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the business unit then known as the Automotive, Industrial, Medical, & Mil/Aero Group. He has more than three decades of experience in the electronics industry. During his career, Mr. Klosterboer has held various engineering, marketing and product line management positions and responsibilities. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor in 2008, Mr. Klosterboer was Senior Vice President, Automotive & Industrial Group for AMI Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Klosterboer joined AMIS in 1982 as a test engineer and during his tenure there he also was a design 17 Table of Contents engineer, field applications engineer, design section manager, program development manager, and product marketing manager. Mr. Klosterboer holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering technology from Montana State University. Mamoon Rashid . Mr. Rashid has over 29 years of experience in the semiconductor and electronics industry spanning from marketing, manufacturing, and sales, to product line management positions. In January 2013, Mr. Rashid was appointed as Senior Vice President and General Manager, SANYO Semiconductor Group (now known as the System Solutions Group) for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Prior to his promotion, Mr. Rashid held the position of Vice President of strategic business development, during which time he led the integration and restructuring of SANYO Semiconductor. Mr. Rashid joined ON Semiconductor in October 2004 and has held several leadership positions during his time with us. Prior to September 2008, Mr. Rashid served as Vice President and General Manager of our discrete products division, where he improved the growth and profitability of the business by entering several new product areas. From September 2008 to 2010, Mr. Rashid led our global supply chain organization as Vice President and General Manager during a transformational period for the Company. In these positions, he has supported the growth of ON Semiconductor into a multi-technology leading supplier of power solutions, as well as helped improve profitability, efficiency and new product successes. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Mr. Rashid held leadership positions at market leading companies such as Intersil, Semtech and General Semiconductor. Geographical Information For certain geographic operating information, see Note 15: Income Taxes and Note 18: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in each case, as included elsewhere in this report. For information regarding other aspects of risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk FactorsTrends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Available Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website is www.onsemi.com . You may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as believes, estimates, expects, projects, may, will, intends, plans, or anticipates, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations, forecasts, estimates and assumptions, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. 18 Table of Contents Among these factors are our revenues and operating performance, poor economic conditions and markets (including current financial conditions), effects of exchange rate fluctuations, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, enforcement and protection of our IP rights and related risks, availability of raw materials, electricity, gas, water and other supply chain uncertainties, our ability to effectively shift production to other facilities when required in order to maintain supply continuity for our customers, variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for semiconductor products, our ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality for our current products, competitor actions, including the adverse impact of competitor product announcements, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses and realization of cost savings and synergies from restructurings, significant litigation, risks associated with decisions to expend cash reserves for various uses such as debt prepayment, stock repurchases, or acquisitions rather than to retain such cash for future needs, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions (including from integrating and consolidating and timely filing financial information with the SEC for acquired businesses and difficulties encountered in accurately predicting the future financial performance of acquired businesses), risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements that may be in place from time to time, risks associated with our worldwide operations including foreign employment and labor matters associated with unions and collective bargaining arrangements as well as man-made and/or natural disasters affecting our operations and finances/financials, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, risks related to new legal requirements and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business From time to time, we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and incur additional operating losses in the future. At times, our historical financial results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and during those times we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses. Reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, the effects of natural disasters such as the flooding in Thailand or the Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011 and other factors have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our business. In order to remain profitable, we must continue to successfully implement our business plan and examine and implement potentially advantageous cost reduction initiatives. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines 19 Table of Contents in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. In the event of such a downturn, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. On the other hand, significant upturns have led to increased customer demand for our products and the risk of not being able to meet this demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In the event of such an upturn, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, or locate suitable third-party suppliers to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. We may also not be able to balance our expansion activities and actual demand in such an environment. The overbuilding of capacity and excess increases of inventory by us and other companies can result in overcapacity in the industry and general price erosion. In some ways, we have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience them in the future. We cannot accurately predict the timing of the current and future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. These future conditions in the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending from time to time. Among other things, such uncertainties may result in lower orders from our customers for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Reduced spending has in the past driven us and may in the future drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which results in a negative impact on gross profit. Volatility in global economic conditions may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations, and we cannot accurately predict volatility or how severe and prolonged any downturn or recovery might be. In addition, to the extent we incorrectly plan for favorable economic conditions that do not materialize or take longer to materialize than expected, our business and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Moreover, volatility in revenues as a result of unpredictable economic conditions may alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short-term and long-term strategies. Furthermore, the United States and global credit markets could experience renewed financial turmoil. If the past pressures on credit were renewed or we experience an additional global downturn, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all, and we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, any outstanding debt when due, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the immediate future, if our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, global financial uncertainty affecting the financial and other markets could impact our business in a number of other ways, including causing (1) our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases, (2) our customers difficulties in obtaining sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, (3) our key suppliers to become capacity-constrained or insolvent, resulting in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and (4) our key suppliers to require acceleration of payments to them or our customers to delay payments to us. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing stockholders. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We face risks resulting from the expansion of our operations through acquisitions, including but not limited to: (1) the difficulty of integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations, which will likely be geographically separated and involve separate technologies and corporate cultures; (2) risks of entering new semiconductor markets or regions of the world in which we have limited experience; (3) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies, particularly if such company is lacking adequate financial reporting and internal control systems or possesses systems that are materially different from ours; (4) the risk that our due diligence in the acquisition process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisitions; (5) the risk that our existing or prospective customers or customers of the acquired business may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions as we integrate new businesses and companies into our business, or that they may seek to change their existing business relationships; (6) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, including difficulties in entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; (7) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (9) negative pressure on gross margins resulting from increased operating and restructuring costs associated with the target. In addition, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with us, and as a result, we could lose key employees. These uncertainties may also impair our ability to recruit or motivate key personnel. In connection with a transaction, key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. Further, as a result of our acquisitions, we may assume liabilities from the targets current employee benefit plans that may require us to bring plan documentation into compliance with current law, including ensuring that plans are adequately funded. In connection with our acquisition activity, we are required by generally accepted accounting principles and SEC rules and regulations to integrate newly acquired businesses into our consolidated financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements, or if they do have independent audited financial statements, such statements may not be prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, which could materially impair our ability to obtain or prepare necessary financial information concerning such businesses in a format required to allow proper integration with our systems and financials. In addition, immediately after an acquisition and until such time as we are able to fully integrate an acquired business into our financial statements, we may be dependent on the acquired business financial controls and systems for reporting and other financial information, including projections and goals for such acquired business. We may not be able to successfully prepare and file required financial statements or other financial information for the acquired business, or to integrate the acquired business into our financial controls and systems and our consolidated financial statements in a timely manner. Failure to prepare accurate financial reports for our acquired businesses in a timely manner in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could cause material inaccuracies in our financial statements and SEC filings, which could result in the necessity to restate our financials or lead to unknown liabilities and possibly result in a material impact on our stock price. 21 Table of Contents The integration of newly acquired businesses will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Moreover, even if we were able to fully integrate a new acquisitions business operations and other assets successfully, there can be no assurance that such integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the acquisition or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Delays in integrating our acquisitions, which could be caused by factors outside of our control, could adversely affect the intended benefits of the acquisitions to our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. In connection with an acquisition, it is possible that we may anticipate tax savings through integration of the newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure. As with any estimate, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. We review goodwill associated with our acquisitions for impairment at least on an annual basis (see Part II, Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2: Significant Accounting PoliciesGoodwill of the notes to our consolidated audited financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about goodwill). In the past, we recorded goodwill impairment charges related to certain of our acquisitions. Factors we consider important that could result in a subsequent impairment to goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen, causing decreased revenues and/or increased costs, we may have further material goodwill impairments. Further material goodwill impairments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our operating results. In any such case, it is possible that factors outside of our control, including but not limited to increases in interest rates and loss of key customers, could adversely affect the intended benefits from an acquisition, even though we would continue to have a repayment obligation under the related loan agreement. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization and realizing expected synergies from acquisitions. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. We believe that our success materially depends on our ability to maintain or improve our current margin levels related to our manufacturing. For instance, if we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. In addition, increased competition and other factors beyond our control, including economic factors, may lead to price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the future. Moreover, we believe that we will need to continue to improve the margin levels of our System Solutions Group business and successfully execute on available opportunities in order to realize the intended benefits of this transaction. While we anticipate that certain cost reduction measures taken, including the voluntary retirement programs implemented in 2013, should improve its margin levels, we may not be able to benefit fully from such actions. 22 Table of Contents The failure to successfully implement our profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions, including restructuring activities, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other things, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs have been primarily comprised of employee separation costs and asset impairments. See Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, net of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information on restructuring activities. We also often undertake restructuring activities in connection with our business acquisitions, which can result in significant charges, including charges for severance payments to terminated employees and asset impairment charges. We cannot assure you that our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives will be successfully or timely implemented, or will materially impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. For additional information regarding our profitability enhancement programs and cost reduction measures, see Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, net of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) further expand our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) further reduce the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) integrate newly acquired products, manufacturing capabilities and sales channels. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other things, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our IP portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance 23 Table of Contents personnel. Several of these factors and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, the impact of natural disasters, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process and often requires significant capital investment. Additionally, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and market these new products. There also is no assurance that the products we do develop and market will be well received by customers, or that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users, including changes due to evolving consumer preferences, international political developments influencing end-user preferences, and natural disasters or other extraordinary events that impact our customers or end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Moreover, we may make significant investment in new products that may not be profitable or that do not have margins as high as we anticipated or experienced historically. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely generate inventory based on customers estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation 24 Table of Contents or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. As a result of current economic uncertainty, competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified, as manufacturers of semiconductor components have offered reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully customized ICs, as well as from customers who develop their own IC products. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, tablets, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We and our competitors continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities (including as a part of our cost reduction measures and in reaction to man-made and natural disasters, such as the 2011 flooding in Thailand), upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or uncertainty as a result of the acquisition and integration of manufacturing facilities acquired as a result of our 25 Table of Contents acquisition activities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing, information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and such capital expenditures and commitments, as well as other commitments, may materially decrease our liquidity. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and utilize these new technologies. There also is no assurance that the new technologies we do develop and utilize will be sufficient to support our business operations and strategies, or that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such new technologies. We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. In the recent past, we have undertaken various and material cost reduction measures which we believe have been largely successful. However, these reductions, and any future reductions, may unintentionally affect our ability to remain competitive in efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be forced to increase our future capital expenditures in unexpected ways to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make timely and necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and other business disruptions. Our worldwide operations are subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions from time to time, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial reporting and condition. We are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by floods, hurricanes, typhoons, droughts, and other extreme weather conditions, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, and similar natural disasters, as well as power outages, power shortages, telecommunications failures, industrial accidents, and similar events. Such events can cause direct injury or damage to our employees and property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, and related internal controls, and can also have significant direct and indirect consequences. For example, such events can negatively impact revenues and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow, both from decreased revenue and from increased costs associated with the event. Such costs may include expenses to restore production or to move production to other facilities, including incremental capital expenditures and costs for expedited shipping, expenses incurred with a shut-down of the damaged facility, including employee severance payments, and other unusual costs and expenses such as fixed asset impairments, inventory write-downs, charges relating to cancellation of purchase orders for excess materials and charges for restoration and recovery work. Overall costs may also be impacted by other factors, such as the under-absorption of our 26 Table of Contents manufacturing and operating support overhead. For example, in the case of our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic that manufactures silicon wafers used by a number of our facilities, any natural or man-made disaster, operational disruption, or other extraordinary event that impacted the facility or regional infrastructure would have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to produce a number of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, costs, and/or prospects if we were unable to effectively source silicon from qualified third parties to replace the production loss. Such events may also affect the infrastructure of the country in which the event occurs, causing water damage, power outages, transportation delays and restrictions, public health issues and economic instability and disrupting local and international supply chains. As a result, we could experience shortages of, and interruptions in supply and increased prices for, components that we source from companies located in or with operations in any such country, as well as from other suppliers whose supply chains may similarly be affected. Such shortages and interruptions may also affect our ability to timely deliver our products to customers and, as a result, our customers may seek substitute products from other manufacturers. Consequences such as power outages, including any rolling blackouts or other anticipated problems, could adversely affect our business by, among other things, interrupting our production capacity, harming our internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers and suppliers, and limiting our customers ability to sell or use our products. In addition, damage or destruction to our property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, could adversely affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the historical and future reporting of our financial results and our ability to integrate the financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies. Responding to natural disasters and their consequences will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Although we carry insurance to generally compensate for losses of the type noted above, such insurance may be subject to deductible and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred or continue to be available in the affected area at commercially reasonable rates and terms. If we were to lose one of our large customers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, the costs of our raw materials increase significantly, their quality deteriorates or the raw materials give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon, silicon wafers, gold, copper, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt production in material ways. In addition, we cannot assure you that we 27 Table of Contents will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations and customer relations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. In any such case, arranging for replacement contractors can be time consuming and costly and we may encounter start-up difficulties. Regulations that impose disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products will result in additional cost and expense and could result in other significant adverse effects. Rules adopted by the SEC implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act impose diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products. Compliance with these rules will result in additional cost and expense, including for due diligence to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. These rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor devices as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict free metals or components that can be used in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals or components in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. The cost of compliance to our service providers, foundries, subcontractors and suppliers could also be passed along to us, resulting in higher prices for the materials or components we use in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the metals used in our products. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Asia/Pacific region, the Americas, and Europe. Similarly, we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; exposure to different legal standards, customs, business practices, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers (including changes with respect to price protection, competition practices, IP, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license requirements and restrictions, and accounts receivable collections); 28 Table of Contents transportation delays; power supply shortages and shutdowns; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor laws and other employment and labor issues; currency convertibility and repatriation; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; potential violations by our international employees or third party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations (e.g., the Federal Corrupt Practices Act); and other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In the last few fiscal years, we have benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our effective tax rate is uncertain on an ongoing basis. Changes to income tax regulations in the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate or in the interpretation of such laws could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, business combinations and investment transactions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes and changes in available tax credits could increase our future effective tax rate. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our results of operations could be affected by our increasing or decreasing operations in jurisdictions with higher or lower rates, as well as by changes in rates or the laws that determine when we are subject to taxation in a specific jurisdiction. We hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt repurchases, payments and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, through borrowings under our current debt agreements or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success, both generally and in connection with mergers and acquisitions, depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. In addition, from time to time, we have announced certain cost reductions that included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. We also establish performance criteria for awards to officers and employees under bonus and other incentive plans and programs that may not be satisfied. These measures, as 29 Table of Contents well as any future measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel and our existing employment agreements do not require the employee to continue to work for us. As employee incentives, we have issued common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at the time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time, RSUs with time-based vesting and performance-based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new, or amendments to, equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue these types of awards. Our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various laws and regulations governing our registered and unregistered IP assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. These laws and regulations are subject to legislative and regulatory change and interpretation by courts. Additionally, some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications. With respect to our IP generally, we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective IP protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party IP rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such IP rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for IP we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of processes; or obtain licenses to the infringing technologies. 30 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to IP arising out of our research. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, software licenses and other IP is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our IP rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the IP right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of IP rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged IP rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged IP rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, including securities class action litigation that may be particularly costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider either routine matters that arise in the normal course of business or immaterial for our aggregate business operations. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor and IP. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As mentioned above, from time to time, we have been, or may in the future be, involved in securities litigation or litigation arising from our acquisitions. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation matter in which we are a party. These types of matters are costly to defend and even if resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to obtain credit and financing for our operations and to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions will not subject us to additional litigation. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report for more information on our legal proceedings. 31 Table of Contents We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Like most publicly traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which requires managements annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. There can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined companys internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including delaying or failing to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our internal control over financial reporting or the identification and reporting of a material weakness, may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of such transactions, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. See Part II, Item 9A