Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations - Key Financing and Capital Events - Fairchild Transaction Financing) and with cash on hand. See Note 4: Acquisitions and Divestitures in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. We believe that the Fairchild Transaction creates a power semiconductor leader with strong capabilities in a rapidly consolidating semiconductor industry. Ultimately, we believe that the combination of Fairchild operations with our existing operations will provide complementary product lines to offer customers the full spectrum of high, medium and low voltage products. We will continue to pioneer technology and design innovation in efficient energy consumption to help our customers achieve success and drive value for our partners and employees around the world. We believe the acquisition of Fairchild also expands our footprint in wireless communication products, particularly in high efficiency power conversions and USB Type C communication and power delivery. See Notes 4: Acquisitions and Divestitures, 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net, 7: Balance Sheet Information, 8: Long-Term Debt, and 15: Income Taxes in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about the Fairchild Transaction. Products and Technology The following provides certain information regarding the products and technologies by each of our operating segments. See Business Overview above and Note 18: Segment Information in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for other information regarding our segments and their revenues and property, plant and equipment and the income derived from each segment. 7 Table of Contents Power Solutions Group The Power Solutions Group offers a wide array of discrete, module and integrated semiconductor products that perform multiple application functions, including power switching, power conversion, signal conditioning, circuit protection, signal amplification and voltage reference functions. The trends driving growth within our end-user markets are primarily higher power efficiency and power density in power applications, the demand for greater functionality in small handheld devices, and faster data transmission rates in all communications. The advancement of existing volt electrical infrastructure, electrification of power train in the form of EV/HEV, higher trench density enabling lower losses in power efficient packages and lower capacitance and integrated signal conditioning products to support faster data transmission rates, significantly increase the use of high power semiconductor solutions. Certain of the Power Solutions Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: Automotive electronics Over 5,000 AEC qualified products, covering the spectrum from discrete to integrated, as well as automotive modules and known good die to support automotive modules. Industrial electronics Focused on advanced power technologies to support high performance power conversion for high-end power supply/UPS, alternative energy, and industrial motors. Computing MOSFETs and protection devices supporting latest chipsets. Multichip power solutions and advanced LDOs to support power efficiency requirements in new computing platforms. GaN technology enables drastic reduction in power adaptor size. Communications Continue to introduce worlds smallest packages: DFN MOSFETs, Chip Scale Package (MOSFET/EEPROMs), EEPROMs and LDOs, DFN 01005 and X4DFN for small signal devices and protection. Low capacitance ESD and common mode filters for high speed serial interface protection. Analog Solutions Group The Analog Solutions Group designs and develops analog, mixed-signal, and advanced logic ASICs and ASSPs, and power solutions for a broad base of end-users in the automotive, consumer, computing, industrial, communications, medical and aerospace/defense markets. Our product solutions enable industry leading active mode and standby mode efficiency now being demanded by regulatory agencies around the world. Additionally, the Analog Solutions Group offers Trusted Foundry, Trusted Design, and manufacturing services, and IPD products technology, which leverage the Companys broad range of manufacturing, IC design, packaging, and 8 Table of Contents silicon technology offerings to provide turn-key solutions for our customers. Certain of the Analog Solutions Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: Automotive electronics Energy efficient solutions that reduce emissions, improve fuel economy and safety, enhance lighting, and make possible an improved driving experience. Communications High efficiency mixed-signal, power management, and RF products that enable our customers to maximize the performance of their products while preserving critical battery life. RF Tuning solutions to enhance radio performance. Fast charging (wall-to-battery including wireless charging), multi-media, and ambient awareness system solutions to address increasing customer desire for innovation. Computing Solutions for a wide range of voltage and current options ranging from multi-phase 30 volt power for VCOR processors, power stage and single cell battery point of load. Thermal and battery charging solutions as well as high density power conversion solutions are also supported. Industrial electronics Power efficient communication and sensor interface products, and motor control products. Wired and low power RF wireless connectivity for IoT applications. Residential & commercial grade circuit breaking products for GFCI & AFCI applications. FDA-compliant assembly and packaging manufacturing services. Image Sensor Group The Image Sensor Group designs and develops CMOS and CCD image sensors, as well as proximity sensors, image signal processors, and actuator drivers for autofocus and image stabilization for a broad base of end-users in the automotive, industrial, consumer, wireless, medical, and aerospace/defense markets. Our broad range of product offerings delivers excellent pixel performance, sensor functionality and camera systems capabilities to a world in which high quality visual imagery is becoming increasingly important to our customers and their end-users. With our high-quality imaging portfolio, camera system and applications expertise, our customers can deliver new and differentiated imaging solutions to their end-markets. Certain of the Image Sensor Groups broad portfolio of products and solutions are summarized below: Automotive imaging High dynamic range, low-light, fast video frame rates with near-IR sensitivity for scene viewing to dramatically reduce automotive injuries and fatalities, and scene understanding for ADAS and Automated Driving to improve safety and enhance the overall driving experience. Industrial Imaging A broad range of both CMOS and CCD image sensors for aerial surveillance, intelligent traffic systems, one dimensional light and proximity sensor modules, smart home, lighting, industrial automation, smart cities and aerospace/defense applications. 9 Table of Contents Wireless and Consumer Electronics A broad range of CMOS sensors and driver actuators for high performance mobile phones, PCs, tablets, high-speed video cameras, and various unique consumer applications. Our solutions offer superior image quality, fast frame rates, high definition, and low light sensitivity to provide customers with a compelling visual experience, especially in emerging applications in IoT markets for security, surveillance and Internet Protocol cameras. Customers In general, we have maintained long-term relationships with our key customers. Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain certain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require minimum purchase commitments. Most of our OEM customers negotiate pricing terms with us on an annual basis near the end of the calendar year, while our other customers, including electronic manufacturer service providers and distributors, generally negotiate pricing terms with us on a quarterly basis. Our products are ultimately purchased for use in a variety of end-markets, including computing, automotive, consumer, industrial, communications, networking, aerospace/defense and medical. For the years ended December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, we had no sales to individual customers, including distributors, that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2016, aggregate revenue from our five largest customers per segment, including distributors, for our Power Solutions Group, Analog Solutions Group, and Image Sensor Group, comprised approximately 40%, 31% , and 51%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenue. The loss of certain of these customers or distributors may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the respective segment. We generally warrant that products sold to our customers will, at the time of shipment, be free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain exceptions, our standard warranty extends for a period of two years. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days prior to shipment for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. For additional information regarding agreements with our customers, see Backlog and Inventory below. 10 Table of Contents End-Markets for Our Products The following table sets forth our principal end-markets, the estimated percentage (based in part on information provided by our distributors and electronic manufacturing service providers) of our revenues generated from each end-market during 2016, sample applications for our products and representative OEM customers and end-users. Computing Consumer Automotive Industrial Communications Networking Aerospace/ Defense Medical Approximate percentage of 2016 Revenue 12% 12% 34% 19% 16% 3% 1% 3% Sample applications Notebooks, Ultrabooks, & 2-in-1s Music Players, Digital Cameras & Video Recorders Fuel Economy & Emission Reduction Smart Grid & Metering Tablets Switches Cockpit Displays Hearing Health Desktop PCs & All-in-Ones Flat TVs & Set-Top Boxes Active Safety (ADAS and Viewing) Security & Surveillance Smart phones Routers Guidance Systems Imaging USB Type C Gaming & Home Entertainment Systems Body Electronics & Lighting Machine Vision Back lighting & Display Control Base Stations Infrared Imaging Diagnostic, Therapy, & Monitoring Graphics White Goods Infotainment & Connectivity Motor Control RF Tuning Power Supplies Image Sensors Implantable Devices Servers & Workstations USB Type C Power Supplies Smart Buildings Machine Vision Wearable Devices Power Supplies Power Supplies EV/HEV Robotics Drones Power Supplies AR/VR Industrial Automation Wearable Devices Drones AR/VR Representative OEM customers and end-users Asus GoPro, Inc. Bosch GMBH Bosch GMBH BBK Electronics Alcatel Lucent Aeroflex Boston Scientific Dell Computer Gree, Inc. Continental Automotive Systems Dahua Technology Huawei Tech Co., Ltd. Cisco British Aerospace General Electric Co. Delta Electronics, Inc. LG Electronics Delphi Delta Electronics Lenovo Delta Electronics General Electric Co. Intricon Corp Foxconn Microsoft Denso Corporation Emerson Electric Co LG Ericsson Honeywell Inc Medtronic Gigabyte Midea Fujitsu Ten LTD Grundfos Samsung Electronics Huawei L-3 Communications Philips Hewlett Packard Co Panasonic Corporation Hella Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Sony Mobile Nokia Solutions and Networks Lockheed Martin St. Jude Medical Lenovo Philips Hyundai Mobis Co., Ltd. Honeywell Inc. ZTE Hong Kong Ltd ZTE Hong Kong LTD Raytheon Co Starkey Laboratories Quanta Samsung Electronics Magna International Kionix INC Rockwell Collins Seagate Technology Sony Corp Magneti Marelli Philips Sofradir Western Digital Corporation Whirlpool Corp TRW Inc Schneider Electric Valeo Siemens Industrial Visteon 11 Table of Contents OEMs Direct sales to OEMs accounted for approximately 38% of our revenues in 2016, 39% of our revenues in 2015 and 42% of our revenues in 2014. OEM customers include a variety of companies in the electronics industry such as Bosch GmbH, Continental Automotive Systems, Delphi, Hella, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Magna International, Panasonic Corporation and Samsung Electronics. We focus on three types of OEMs: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. Large multi-nationals and selected regional accounts, which are significant in specific markets, are our core OEM customers. The target market customers for our end-markets are OEMs that are on the leading edge of specific technologies and provide direction for technology and new product development. Generally, our OEM customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to our standard warranty. Distributors Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 56% of our revenues in 2016, 54% of our revenues in 2015 and 50% of our revenues in 2014. Our distributors, which include Arrow, Avnet, Macnica, OS Electronics, World Peace and WT Microelectronics, resell to mid-sized and smaller OEMs and to electronic manufacturing service providers and other companies. Sales to certain distributors are made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Under certain agreements, distributors are allowed to return any product that we have removed from our price book. In addition, agreements with certain of our distributors contain stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Due to current limitations on the feasibility of estimating the upfront effect of returns and allowances with these distributors, we defer recognition of revenue and gross profit on sales to these distributors until these distributors resell the product. As a result, sales returns have minimal impact on our results of operations. Electronic Manufacturing Service Providers Direct sales to electronic manufacturing service providers accounted for approximately 6% of our revenues in 2016, 7% of our revenues in 2015 and 8% of our revenues in 2014. Among our largest electronic manufacturing service customers are Benchmark Electronic, Flextronics, Jabil and Sanmina . These customers are manufacturers who typically provide contract manufacturing services for OEMs. Originally, these companies were involved primarily in the assembly of printed circuit boards, but they now typically provide design, supply management and manufacturing solutions as well. Many OEMs now outsource a large part of their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers in order to focus on their core competencies. We are pursuing a number of strategies to penetrate this increasingly important marketplace. Generally, our electronic manufacturing service customers do not have the right to return our products following a sale other than pursuant to our standard warranty. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 18: Segment Information in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for revenues by geographic locations. Manufacturing Operations We operate front-end wafer fabrication facilities in Belgium, Czech Republic, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, and the United States and back-end assembly and test site facilities in Canada, China, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam and the United States. In addition to these front-end and back-end manufacturing operations, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic manufactures silicon wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. 12 Table of Contents The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint venture with Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited, a joint venture company in which we own a majority of the outstanding equity interests (Leshan), as well as the reporting segments that use these facilities, along with the approximate gross square footage of each sites building, which includes, among other things, manufacturing, laboratory, warehousing, office, utility, support and unused areas. Location Reporting Segment Size (sq. ft.) Front-end Facilities: Gresham, Oregon Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 558,457 Pocatello, Idaho Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 582,384 Roznov, Czech Republic Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 438,882 Oudenaarde, Belgium Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 711,410 Seremban, Malaysia (Site 2) (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 124,910 Niigata, Japan Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 1,106,779 Rochester, New York (2) Image Sensor Group 275,642 Bucheon, South Korea Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 861,081 South Portland, Maine Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 344,588 Mountaintop, Pennsylvania Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 437,000 Back-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada (1) (3) Analog Solutions Group 95,440 Leshan, China (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 416,339 Seremban, Malaysia (Site 1) (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 328,278 Carmona, Philippines (3) Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 926,367 Tarlac City, Philippines (3) Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 381,764 Shenzhen, China (1)(3) Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 275,463 Bien Hoa, Vietnam (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 294,418 Gunma, Japan (1) (3) Power Solutions Group 514,854 Rochester, New York (2) Image Sensor Group 275,642 Nampa, Idaho (1) Image Sensor Group 166,268 Cebu, Philippines (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 228,460 Suzhou, China (3) Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group 462,639 Other Facilities: Roznov, Czech Republic Analog Solutions Group, Image Sensor Group and Power Solutions Group 438,882 Thuan An District, Vietnam (3) Power Solutions Group 30,494 (1) These facilities are leased. (2) This facility is used for both front-end and back-end operations with a total square footage of 275,642. Consists of one leased and one owned building. (3) These facilities are located on leased land. We operate all of our manufacturing facilities directly, with the exception of our assembly and test operations facility located in Leshan, China, which is owned by Leshan. Our investment in Leshan has been consolidated in our financial statements. Our joint venture partner, Leshan Radio Company Ltd., is formerly a state-owned enterprise. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, requests for production capacity are made to the board of directors of Leshan by each shareholder of the joint venture. Each request represents a purchase commitment by the requesting shareholder, provided that the shareholder may elect to pay the cost associated with the unused capacity (which is generally equal to the fixed cost of the capacity) in lieu of satisfying the commitment. We committed to purchase 80% of Leshans production capacity in each of 2016 and 2015, and 70% in 2014, and are currently committed to purchase approximately 80% of Leshans expected production capacity in 2017. 13 Table of Contents We use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of finished goods. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts. In some cases, longer-term commitments are required in the early stages of the relationship. These contract manufacturers, including Amkor, ASE, Kingpak, SMIC, TPSCo and UMC, collectively accounted for approximately 36%, 39% and 30% of our manufacturing costs in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations, see Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources, generally on a just-in-time basis, and material agreements with our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations are reflected in our contractual obligations table in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials we use are currently and will continue to be available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply, increased demand in the industry or other factors. Sales, Marketing and Distribution As of December 31, 2016, our sales and marketing organization consisted of approximately 1,700 professionals, servicing customers globally. We support our customers through logistics organizations and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution channels further support our customers needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective global applications support from our Technical Information Centers and Solution Engineering Centers, allowing for applications which are developed in one region of the world to be instantaneously available throughout all other regions. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights We market our products primarily under our registered trademark ON Semiconductor and our ON logo, and, in the United States and internationally, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, employee and non-disclosure agreements and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property. We acquired or were licensed or sublicensed to a significant amount of IP, including patents and patent applications, in connection with our acquisitions, and we have numerous U.S. and foreign patents issued, allowed and pending. As of December 31, 2016, we held patents with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2038, and none of the patents that expire in the next three years materially affect our business. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our IP rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other IP rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. Seasonality Historically, our revenues have been affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the seasonal trends of related end-markets, which typically results in a stronger second half of the year for certain end-markets as compared to the first half of the year. With our recent acquisitions and our continued focus on the 14 Table of Contents automotive end market, we have started to experience a stronger first half of the year, which partially offsets the seasonality experienced during the prior years. However, in the future, we could experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions or for other reasons. For information regarding risks associated with the cyclicality and seasonality of our business, see Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Backlog and Inventory Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to orders that are predominantly booked as far as 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demand from our Electronic Data Interface customers, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors, including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. For those shipments to distributors who are allowed sales return rights and allowances, we recognize the related revenue and cost of revenue depending on if the sale originated through an ON Semiconductor or legacy Fairchild system or process. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies for additional information. Thus, backlog comprised of orders from these distributors will not result in revenues until these distributors sell the products ordered. During 2016, our backlog at the beginning of each quarter represented between 82% and 87% of actual revenues during such quarter, which is consistent with backlog levels in recent prior periods. As manufacturing capacity utilization in the industry increases, customers tend to order products further in advance and, as a result, backlog at the beginning of a period as a percentage of revenues during such period is likely to increase. In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required for producing ordered products. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. We routinely generate inventory based on customers estimates of end-user demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. See Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the inventory practices within the semiconductor industry. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general-purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. We face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because some of our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, can be integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully-customized ICs, as well as customers who develop their own IC products. See Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. In comparison, several competitors noted below are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution 15 Table of Contents of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. The semiconductor industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant consolidation among companies and vertical integration among customers. The following discusses the effects of competition on our three operating segments: Power Solutions Group The Power Solutions Group is a leading provider of power semiconductors to the automotive, industrial, wireless and mass markets. Our competitive strengths include our core competencies of leading edge fabrication technologies, micro packaging expertise, breadth of product line and IP portfolio, high quality cost effective manufacturing, and supply chain management which ensures supply to our customers. Our commitment to continual innovation allows us to provide an ever broader range of semiconductor solutions to our customers who differentiate in power density and power efficiency, the key performance characteristics driving our markets. The principal methods of competition in our discrete, module and integrated semiconductor products are through new products and package innovations enabling enhanced performance over existing products. Of particular importance are our power MOSFETs, IGBTs, rectifiers and power module portfolio for power conversion applications and ESD portfolio for hi-speed serial interface protection products where we believe we have significant performance advantages over our competition. Select competitors include: Broadcom Limited; Diodes Incorporated; Infineon Technologies AG; KEC Corporation; NXP Semiconductors N.V.; Rohm Semiconductor; Semtech Corporation; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Texas Instruments Inc.; Toshiba Corporation; and Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. Analog Solutions Group The principal methods of competition in the Analog Solutions Group are based on design experience, manufacturing capability, depth and quality of IP, ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and experience of sales and technical support personnel. Our competitive position is also enhanced by long-standing relationships we have established with leading OEM customers. Our ability to compete successfully depends on internal and external variables, both inside and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability of supply, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Select competitors for certain of our products and solutions include: Infineon Technologies AG; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; NXP Semiconductors N.V.; Renesas Electronics Corporation; STMicroelectronics N.V.; and Texas Instruments Inc. Image Sensor Group The principal method of competition in the Image Sensor Group is based on imaging experience for end users. Our competitive strengths include differentiating ourselves from others by leveraging our deep technical knowledge and close customer relationships to drive the most compelling imaging experience for end users. The Image Sensor Group was the first to commercialize CMOS active pixel sensors and the first to introduce CMOS technology into many of our markets, leveraging four decades of CCD imaging experience into market leading positions in automotive and industrial applications, bringing a wealth of technical and end-user applications knowledge to help customers develop innovative imaging solutions across a broad range of end-user needs. Select competitors for certain of our products and solutions include: Omnivision Technologies; Samsung 16 Table of Contents Semiconductor; Sony Semiconductor; STMicroelectronics N.V.; and Toshiba Corporation for image sensors, as well as Dongwoon Anatech Co., Ltd.; Renesas Electronics Corporation; and Rohm Semiconductor for actuator drivers. Research and Development Research and development costs in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $452.3 million, $396.7 million and $366.6 million, representing 12%, 11%, and 12% of revenue, respectively. We seek to maximize the investment of our people and capital in research and development by targeting innovative products and solutions for high growth applications that position the company to outperform the industry. Our design expertise in analog, digital, mixed signal and imaging ICs, combined with our extensive portfolio of standard products enable the company to offer comprehensive, value added solutions to our global customers for their electronics systems. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to emissions and discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with other companies engaged in like businesses, the nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, with respect to such matters, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines. Our headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a Superfund site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). Motorola and now Freescale have been actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the State of Arizona. As part of our separation from Motorola in 1999, Motorola retained responsibility for this contamination, and Motorola and Freescale (which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of NXP Semiconductors N.V. on December 7, 2015) have agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. Our former front-end wafer manufacturing location in Aizu, Japan is located on property where soil and ground water contamination has been detected. We believe that the contamination originally occurred during a time when the facility was operated by a prior owner. We have been working with local authorities to implement remediation actions and expect all remaining remediation costs to be covered by insurance. Based on information available, any net costs to us in connection with this matter are not expected to be material. Our manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that this facility was operated by government-owned entities. The remediation projects consist primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site, with additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded. The government of the Czech Republic has agreed to indemnify us and the respective subsidiaries, subject to specified limitations, for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. Our design center in East Greenwich, Rhode Island is located on property that has localized soil contamination. When we purchased the East Greenwich facility, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Covenant Not To Sue with the State of Rhode Island. This agreement requires that remedial actions be undertaken and a quarterly 17 Table of Contents groundwater monitoring program be initiated by the former owners of the property. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. As a result of the acquisition of AMIS in 2008, we are a primary responsible party to an environmental remediation and cleanup at AMISs former corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Costs incurred by AMIS include implementation of the clean-up plan, operations and maintenance of remediation systems and other project management costs. However, AMISs former parent company, a subsidiary of Nippon Mining, contractually agreed to indemnify AMIS and us for any obligations relating to environmental remediation and clean-up at this location. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any future costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. Through the acquisition of Fairchild, we acquired facilities in South Portland, Maine and West Jordan, Utah, which have ongoing environmental remediation projects to respond to certain releases of hazardous substances that occurred prior to the leveraged recapitalization of Fairchild from its former parent company, National Semiconductor Corporation, which is now owned by Texas Instruments, Inc. Although we may incur certain liabilities with respect to the above remediation projects, pursuant to the asset purchase agreement entered into in connection with the Fairchild recapitalization, National Semiconductor Corporation agreed to indemnify Fairchild, without limitation and for an indefinite period of time, for all future costs related to these projects. Additionally, under the 1999 asset purchase agreement pursuant to which Fairchild purchased the power device business of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (Samsung), Samsung agreed to indemnify Fairchild in an amount up to $150.0 million for remediation costs and other liabilities related to historical contamination at Samsungs Bucheon, South Korea operations. The costs incurred to respond to the above conditions and projects have not been, and are not expected to be, material, and any future payments we make in connection with such liabilities are not expected to be material. We were notified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under CERCLA in the Chemetco Superfund matter. Chemetco is a defunct reclamation services supplier who operated in Illinois at what is now a Superfund site. We used Chemetco for reclamation services. The EPA is pursuing Chemetco customers for contribution to the site cleanup activities. We have joined a PRP group which is cooperating with the EPA in the evaluation and funding of the cleanup. Based on the information available, any costs to us in connection with this matter have not been, and are not expected to be, material. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. The costs we incurred in complying with applicable environmental regulations for fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 were not material, and we do not expect the cost of complying with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, together with any liabilities for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material adverse effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company or its subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs, and such costs may have a material adverse effect on our future business or prospects. See Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. Employees As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 32,000 employees worldwide, of which approximately 4,400 employees were in the United States. The primary reason for the increase in headcount from prior year was due 18 Table of Contents to the addition of Fairchild employees. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements, except for our employees at the Mountain Top, Pennsylvania manufacturing facility. Certain of our foreign employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements (e.g., those in China, Korea, Japan and Belgium) or similar arrangements or are represented by workers councils. For information regarding employee risk associated with our international operations, see Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Of the total number of our employees as of December 31, 2016, approximately 26,500 were engaged in manufacturing, approximately 1,700 were engaged in our sales and marketing organization, which includes customer service, approximately 1,100 were engaged in administration and approximately 2,700 were engaged in research and development. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 24, 2017 is set forth below. Name Age Position Keith D. Jackson 61 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director* Bernard Gutmann 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer* George H. Cave 59 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Corporate Secretary* William M. Hall 61 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Power Solutions Group* Robert A. Klosterboer 56 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog Solutions Group* Paul E. Rolls 54 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing* William A. Schromm 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer* Taner Ozcelik 49 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Image Sensor Group* Bernard R. Colpitts, Jr. 42 Chief Accounting Officer, Vice President of Finance and Treasury and Corporate Controller * Executive Officers of both ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. The present term of office for the officers named above will generally expire on the earliest of their retirement, resignation or removal. There is no family relationship among such officers. Keith D. Jackson . Mr. Jackson was elected as a Director of ON Semiconductor and appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in November 2002. Mr. Jackson has more than 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. Before joining ON Semiconductor, he was with Fairchild, serving as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Groups, beginning in 1998, and, more recently, was head of its Integrated Circuits Group. From 1996 to 1998, he served as President and a member of the board of directors of Tritech Microelectronics in Singapore, a manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products. From 1986 to 1996, Mr. Jackson worked for National Semiconductor Corporation, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He also held various positions at Texas Instruments Incorporated, including engineering and management positions, from 1973 to 1986. Mr. Jackson joined the board of directors of Veeco Instruments, Inc. in February 2012 and has served on the board of directors of the Semiconductor Industry Association since 2008. In February of 2014, Mr. Jackson became a National Association of Corporate Directors Board Leadership Fellow, the highest level of credentialing for corporate directors and corporate governance professionals. Bernard Gutmann . Mr. Gutmann was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in September 2012, and has served as ON Semiconductors and SCI LLCs Treasurer since January 2013. Before his promotion, he worked with the Company as Vice President, 19 Table of Contents Corporate Analysis & Strategy of SCI LLC, serving in that position from April 2006 to September 2012. In these roles, his responsibilities have included finance integration, financial reporting, restructuring, tax, treasury, and financial planning and analysis. From November 2002 to April 2006, Mr. Gutmann served as Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis and Treasury of SCI LLC. From September 1999 to November 2002, he held the position of Director, Financial Planning & Analysis of SCI LLC. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Mr. Gutmann served in various financial positions with Motorola from 1982 to 1999, including controller of various divisions and an off-shore wafer and backend factory, finance and accounting manager, financial planning manager and financial analyst. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Management Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts (U.S.). Additionally, he is fluent in English, French, and Spanish, and conversant in German. George H. Sonny Cave . Mr. Cave is the founding General Counsel and Corporate Secretary at ON Semiconductor since the 1999 spin-out from Motorola Inc. He is also Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer and Chief Risk Officer. His extensive legal and business experience spans over 30 years, including seven years with Motorola. For two years prior to ON Semiconductors spin-out, he was an ex patriate stationed in Geneva, Switzerland as Regulatory Affairs Director for Motorolas Semiconductor Components Group. Before that assignment, he spent five years with Motorolas Corporate Law Department in Phoenix, Arizona where he was Senior Counsel for global Environmental Health and Safety. Mr. Cave also practiced law for six years with two large firms in Denver and Phoenix. He has extensive experience in corporate law, governance, enterprise risk management and compliance and ethics. He holds a Juris Doctorate Degree from the University of Colorado School of Law (1985), a Master of Science Degree from Arizona State University (1982) and a Bachelor of Science Degree cum laude from Duke University (1979). William M. Hall . Mr. Hall joined the Company in May 2006 and is currently the Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Power Solutions Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. During his career, Mr. Hall has held various marketing and product line management positions. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group at Fairchild. Between March 1997 and May 2006, Mr. Hall served at different times as Vice President of Business Development, Analog Products Group, Standard Products Group, and Interface and Logic Group, as well as serving as Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Fairchild. He has also held management positions with National Semiconductor Corp. and was a RADAR design engineer with RCA. Robert A. Klosterboer . Mr. Klosterboer joined the Company in March 2008 and currently serves as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Analog Solutions Group for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. From March 2008 to September 2012, he was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the business unit then known as the Automotive, Industrial, Medical, & Mil/Aero Group. He has more than three decades of experience in the electronics industry. During his career, Mr. Klosterboer has held various engineering, marketing and product line management positions and responsibilities. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor in 2008, Mr. Klosterboer was Senior Vice President, Automotive & Industrial Group for AMI Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Klosterboer joined AMIS in 1982 as a test engineer, and during his tenure there, he also was a design engineer, field applications engineer, design section manager, program development manager, and product marketing manager. Mr. Klosterboer holds a Bachelors degree in electrical engineering technology from Montana State University. Paul E. Rolls . Mr. Rolls was promoted and appointed Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in July 2013. Before his promotion, he served as Senior Vice President, Japan Sales and Marketing and Senior Vice President of Global Sales Operations, serving in that position from October 2012 to July 2013. Mr. Rolls has more than 26 years of technology sales, sales management and operations experience, 20 Table of Contents with more than 19 years of sales and sales management experience in the semiconductor industry. Before joining the Company, Mr. Rolls was the Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Integrated Device Technology, Inc. from January 2010 to April 2012. From August 1996 to December 2009, he held multiple sales positions at International Rectifier Corp., most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Sales. During his career, he has also held management roles at Compaq Computer Corporation. William A. Schromm . Mr. Schromm has more than 30 years of semiconductor industry experience, has been with the Company since August 1999 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC since August 2014. Prior to becoming Chief Operating Officer, he was a Senior Vice President responsible for quality, external manufacturing, manufacturing under our former System Solutions Group segment, global supply chain, information technology, corporate program management. Prior to this role, Mr. Schromm served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Companys former Computing and Consumer Products Group from June 2006 through September 2012. During his tenure with the Company, he has held various positions. From August 2004 through May 2006, he served as the Vice President and General Manager of the Companys former High Performance Analog Division and also led the Companys former Analog Products Group. Beginning in January 2003, he served as Vice President of the Clock and Data Management business and continued in that role with additional product responsibilities when this business became the High Performance Analog Division in August 2004. Prior to that, he served as the Vice President of Tactical Marketing from July 2001 through December 2002, after leading the Companys Standard Logic Division since August 1999. Since April 2015, Mr. Schromm has served on the board of directors of II-VI, Inc. Mr. Schromm earned a BS degree from Boston College and an MBA from the University of Phoenix. Taner Ozcelik. Mr . Ozcelik joined ON Semiconductor in August 2014 as the Senior Vice President of the Aptina Imaging Business and on February 20, 2015, he was named the Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Image Sensor Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Ozcelik has served at the intersection of semiconductors, consumer electronics, computing and automotive industries for more than two decades. Before joining ON Semiconductor in August 2014, he served as Senior Vice President of Aptinas Automotive and Embedded business. Prior to this, Mr. Ozcelik served as Vice President and General Manager of NVIDIAs automotive business from 2012 to 2014, and as General Manager of the Avionics, Automotive and Embedded Business of NVIDIA from 2006 to 2012. While at NVIDIA, he developed several award winning firsts in automotive, which spanned a variety of applications including infotainment systems, digital instrument clusters, automotive tablets and advanced driver assistance systems, which are now featured in cars worldwide. During his career, Mr. Ozcelik has also held positions as President and CEO at MobileSmarts and as Vice President and General Manager at Sony Semiconductor for its Digital Home Platform Division. Mr. Ozcelik holds an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Northwestern University, and a BS in Electrical Engineering from Bogazici University, Turkey. He is listed as an inventor on 23 U.S. patents. Bernard R. Colpitts, Jr. Mr. Colpitts was promoted to the position of Chief Accounting Officer of SCI LLC in February 2017 and continues to serve as Vice President of Finance and Treasury and Corporate Controller of SCI LLC, positions he has held since June 2013. In connection with the promotion to Chief Accounting Officer, the Corporation designated Mr. Colpitts as its Principal Accounting Officer. From August 2011 to February 2013, Mr. Colpitts served as Senior Director, Controller of SCI LLC. He was Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer of Harry & David Holdings, Inc., a premium food and gift producer and retailer, from January 2007 to December 2010. Mr. Colpitts held various positions with SCI LLC related to accounting, finance, and financial reporting from 2000 to 2006. Mr. Colpitts is a Certified Public Accountant. 21 Table of Contents Geographical Information For certain geographic operating information, see Note 15: Income Taxes and Note 18: Segment Information in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in each case as included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding other risks associated with our foreign operations, see Risk Factors - Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Available Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website is www.onsemi.com . Information on or connected to our website is neither part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as believes, estimates, expects, projects, may, will, intends, plans, or anticipates, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations, forecasts, estimates and assumptions, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors included, among others, our revenues and operating performance, economic conditions and markets (including current financial conditions), risk related to our ability to meet our assumptions regarding outlook for revenues and gross margin as a percentage of revenue, effects of exchange rate fluctuations, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, enforcement and protection of our IP rights and related risks, risks related to the security of our information systems and secured network, availability of raw materials, electricity, gas, water and other supply chain uncertainties, our ability to effectively shift production to other facilities when required in order to maintain supply continuity for our customers, variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for semiconductor products, our ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality for our current products, risks associated with 22 Table of Contents acquisitions and dispositions including our acquisition of Fairchild (including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and dispositions, risks that acquisitions or dispositions disrupt our current plans and operations, the risk of unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from acquisitions or dispositions and difficulties encountered from integrating and consolidating and timely filing financial information with the SEC for acquired businesses and accurately predicting the future financial performance of acquired businesses), competitor actions, including the adverse impact of competitor product announcements, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses and realization of cost savings and synergies from restructurings, significant litigation, risks associated with decisions to expend cash reserves for various uses in accordance with our capital allocation policy such as debt prepayment, stock repurchases, or acquisitions rather than to retain such cash for future needs, risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements that may be in place from time to time, risks associated with our worldwide operations including foreign employment and labor matters associated with unions and collective bargaining arrangements as well as man-made and/or natural disasters affecting our operations and finances/financials, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, risks related to new legal requirements and risks involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information, except as may be required by law. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and significant downturns or upturns in customer demand can materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns in customer demand for semiconductors and related products. We cannot accurately predict the timing of future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. Significant downturns often occur in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) or declines in general economic conditions and can result in reduced product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results as a result of increased operating expenses outpacing decreased revenue, reduced margins, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and/or asset impairment charges. On the other hand, significant upturns can cause us to be unable to satisfy demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In the event of such an upturn, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, or locate suitable third-party suppliers to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We may fail to realize the benefits expected from the Fairchild Transaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we expect significant benefits to result from the Fairchild Transaction, there can be no assurance that we will actually realize these or any other anticipated benefits of the Fairchild Transaction, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by our ability to achieve such benefits. Achieving the benefits of the Fairchild Transaction depends, in part, on our ability to integrate Fairchilds business successfully and efficiently with our business. The challenges involved in this integration, which are complex and time consuming, include the following: (1) demonstrating to our and Fairchilds customers that the Fairchild Transaction will not adversely affect our ability to address the needs of customers; (2) coordinating and integrating research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; (3) consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures; (4) coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities and the direction of product development; and (5) minimizing the diversion of management attention from other important business objectives. If we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating Fairchild, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the Fairchild Transaction, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapid innovation and short product life cycles in the semiconductor industry can result in price erosion of older products, which may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid innovation and short product life cycles, which often results in price erosion, especially with respect to products containing outdated technology. Products are frequently replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes and, as demand for older technology falls, the price at which such products can be sold drops, in some cases precipitously. In addition, our and our competitors excess inventory levels can accelerate general price erosion. In order to continue to profitably supply older products, we must offset lower prices by reducing production costs, typically through improvements in process technology and production efficiencies. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our production efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will no longer be able to make a profit from the sale of older products. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of older products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons and, as a result, may be required to bear a loss on such products for a sustained period of time. If reductions in our production costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In recent years, worldwide semiconductor industry sales have tracked the impact of the financial crisis, subsequent recovery and persistent economic uncertainty. We believe that the state of economic conditions in the United States is particularly uncertain due to likely shifts in legislative and regulatory conditions concerning, among other matters, international trade and taxation, and that an uneven recovery or a renewed global downturn may put pressure on our sales due to reductions in customer demand as well as customers deferring purchases. Volatile and/or uncertain economic conditions can adversely impact sales and profitability and make it difficult 24 Table of Contents for us and our competitors to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. To the extent we incorrectly plan for favorable economic conditions that do not materialize or take longer to materialize than expected, we may face oversupply of our products relative to customer demand. In the past, reduced customer spending has driven us, and may in the future drive us and our competitors, to reduce product pricing, which results in a negative effect on gross profit. Moreover, volatility in revenues as a result of unpredictable economic conditions may alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short-term and long-term strategies. To the extent that our sales, profitability and strategies are negatively affected by downturns or volatility in general economic conditions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we do not have access to capital on favorable terms, on the timeline we anticipate, or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We require a substantial amount of capital to meet our operating requirements and remain competitive. We routinely incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies, to increase our productivity and efficiency, to upgrade equipment and to expand production capacity and there can be no assurance that we will realize a return on the capital expended. We have incurred and may continue to incur material amounts of debt to fund these requirements. Significant volatility or disruption in the global financial markets may result in us not being able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, on the timeline we anticipate, or at all, and we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, any outstanding debt when due, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any inability to obtain additional funding on favorable terms, on the timeline we anticipate, or at all, may cause us to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, or obtain funds through arrangements that management does not currently anticipate, including disposing of our assets and relinquishing rights to certain technologies, the occurrence of any of which may significantly impair our ability to remain competitive. If our operating results falter, our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to successfully integrate new strategic acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts, often in markets or regions in which we have limited experience. Our decision to pursue an acquisition is based on, among other factors, our estimates of expected future earnings growth and potential cost savings. For example, we may anticipate tax savings through integration of a newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure, and our estimates could turn out to be incorrect. Risks related to successful integration of an acquisition include, but are not limited to: (1) the ability to integrate information technology and other systems; (2) unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence; (3) customers responding by changing their existing business relationships with us or the acquired company; (4) diversion of managements attention from our day to day operations; and (5) loss of key employees due to uncertainty about positions post-integration. In addition, we may incur unexpected costs, such as operating or restructuring costs (including severance payments to departing employees). In the past, we have recorded goodwill impairment charges related to certain of our acquisitions as a result of such factors as significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results. Missteps or delays in integrating our acquisitions, which could 25 Table of Contents be caused by factors outside of our control, or our failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions on the timeline we anticipate or at all, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Depending on the level of our ownership interest in and the extent to which we can exercise control over the acquired business, we may be required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and SEC rules and regulations to consolidate newly acquired businesses into our consolidated financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements or such statements may not be prepared in accordance with GAAP or the acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, any of which could materially impair our ability to properly integrate such businesses into our consolidated financial statements on a timely basis. Any revisions to, inaccuracies in or restatements of our consolidated financial statements due to accounting for our acquisitions could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain manufacturing efficiency, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that our success materially depends on our ability to maintain or improve our current margin levels related to our manufacturing. Semiconductor manufacturing requires advanced equipment and significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs which include depreciation expense. Manufacturing semiconductor components also involves highly complex processes that we and our competitors are continuously modifying to improve yields and product performance. In addition, impurities, waste or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower production yields. Our manufacturing efficiency is and will continue to be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency, increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors, or be successful in our manufacturing rationalization plans. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at expected levels, or if production capacity increases while revenues do not, the fixed costs and other operating expenses associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our facilities and processes are interdependent and an operational disruption at any particular facility could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce many of our products, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We utilize an integrated manufacturing platform in which multiple facilities may each produce one or more components necessary for the assembly of a single product. As a result of the necessary interdependence within our network of manufacturing facilities, an operational disruption at a facility toward the front-end of our manufacturing process may have a disproportionate impact on our ability to produce many of our products. For example, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic, manufactures silicon wafers used by a number of our facilities, and any operational disruption, natural or man-made disaster or other extraordinary event that impacted the Roznov facility would have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce a number of our products worldwide. In the event of a disruption at any such facility, we may be unable to effectively source replacement components on acceptable terms from qualified third parties, in which case our ability to produce many of our products could be materially disrupted or delayed. Conversely, many of our facilities are single source facilities that only produce one of our end-products, and a disruption at any such facility would materially delay or cease production of the related product. In the event of any such operational disruption, we may experience difficulty in beginning production of replacement components or products at new facilities (for example, due to construction delays) or transferring production to other existing facilities (for example, due to capacity 26 Table of Contents constraints or difficulty in transitioning to new manufacturing processes), any of which could result in a loss of future revenues and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The failure to successfully implement cost reduction initiatives, including through restructuring activities, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. From time to time, we have implemented cost reduction initiatives in response to significant downturns in our industry, including relocating manufacturing to lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to lower costs, implementing personnel reductions and voluntary retirement programs, reducing employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs have been primarily composed of employee separation costs (including severance payments) and asset impairments. We also often undertake restructuring activities and programs to improve our cost structure in connection with our business acquisitions, which can result in significant charges, including charges for severance payments to terminated employees and asset impairment charges. We cannot assure you that our cost reduction and restructuring initiatives will be successfully or timely implemented, or that they will materially and positively impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the associated cost reductions could materially adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended consequences that could materially adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition or harm to our competitive position. To the extent that we do not achieve the profitability enhancement or other benefits of our cost reduction and restructuring initiatives that we anticipate, our results of operations may be materially adversely effected. If we are unable to identify and make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process and often requires significant capital investment and lead time for development and testing. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. In addition, the lengthy development cycle for our products limits our ability to adapt quickly to changes affecting the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users. There can be no assurance that we will win competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, for new products. In addition, design wins do not guarantee that we will make customer sales or that we will generate sufficient revenue to recover design and development investments, as expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. There is no assurance that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop new products, that a significant investment in new products will be profitable or that we will have margins as high as we anticipate at the time of investment or have experienced historically. To the extent that we underinvest in our research and development efforts, or that our investments and capital expenditures in research and development do not lead to sales of new products, we may be unable to bring to market technologies and products that are attractive to our customers, and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to develop new products to satisfy, or we may develop products that misalign with, changing customer demands, which may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, together with frequent new product introductions. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to accurately predict, identify and adapt to changes affecting the requirements of our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. We focus our independent new product development efforts on market segments and applications that we anticipate will experience growth, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying high-growth areas. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns and preferences in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could make our current products obsolete and could make new products that we planned to introduce no longer relevant to our customers needs. If our new product development efforts fail to align with the needs of our customers, including due to circumstances outside of our control like a fundamental shift in the product markets of our customers and end users, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Uncertainties regarding the timing and amount of customer orders could lead to excess inventory and write-downs of inventory that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements, and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers requiring a commitment to purchase. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely generate inventory based on customers estimates of end-user demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties, which may vary significantly. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction of products due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Unsold inventory, cancelled orders and cancellation penalties may materially adversely affect our results of operations, and inventory write-downs may materially adversely affect our financial condition. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and our inability to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control. We face significant competition within each of our product lines from major global semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs, ASICs and fully customized ICs, as well as from customers who develop their own IC products. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. Our inability to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Products or technologies developed by competitors that are larger and have more substantial research and development budgets, or that are smaller and more targeted in their development efforts, may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We also may be unable to market and sell our products if they are 28 Table of Contents not competitive on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, features, system compatibility, customized design, innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability. If we fail to compete effectively on developing strategic relationships with customers and customer sales and technical support, our sales and revenues may be materially adversely affected. Competitive pressures may limit our ability to raise prices, and any inability to maintain revenues or raise prices to offset increases in costs could have a significant adverse effect on our gross margin. Reduced sales and lower gross margins would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry has experienced rapid consolidation and our inability to compete with large competitors or failure to identify attractive opportunities to consolidate may materially adversely affect our business. The semiconductor industry is characterized by the high costs associated with developing marketable products and manufacturing technologies as well as high levels of investment in production capabilities. As a result, the semiconductor industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant consolidation among companies and vertical integration among customers. Larger competitors resulting from consolidations may have certain advantages over us, including, but not limited to: substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our peers if we fail to identify attractive opportunities to consolidate with larger or smaller companies to expand our business. Consolidation among our competitors and integration among our customers could erode our market share, negatively impact our capacity to compete and require us to restructure our operations, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Natural disasters and other business disruptions could cause significant harm to our business operations and facilities and could adversely affect our supply chain and our customer base, any of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our U.S. and international manufacturing facilities and distribution centers, as well as the operations of our third-party suppliers, are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, typhoons, and similar natural disasters, as well as power outages, telecommunications failures, industrial accidents, and similar events. The occurrence of natural disasters in any of the regions in which we operate could severely disrupt the operations of our businesses by negatively impacting our supply chain, our ability to deliver products, and the cost of our products. Such events can negatively impact revenues and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow, both from decreased revenue and from increased costs associated with the event. In addition, these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the U.S. and worldwide economies. Although we carry insurance to generally compensate for losses of the type noted above, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred or continue to be available in the affected area at commercially reasonable rates and terms. To the extent any losses from natural disasters or other business disruptions are not covered by insurance, any costs, write-downs, impairments and decreased revenues can materially adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. The loss of one of our largest customers, or a significant reduction in the revenue we generate from these customers, could materially adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and results of operations. Product sales to our ten largest customers have historically accounted for a significant amount of our business. For instance, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, revenue from our 10 largest end customers 29 Table of Contents collectively represented approximately 24% and 22%, respectively, of our total revenues for those years. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that our largest customers will not cease purchasing products from us in favor of products produced by other suppliers, significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future, and any such event could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, and results of operations. Because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in the automotive and communications industries, a downturn or lower sales to customers in either industry could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive and communications industries (including networking). Sales into these industries represented approximately 34% and 19% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2016, and those percentages will vary from quarter to quarter. Both the automotive and communications industries are cyclical, and, as a result, our customers in these industries are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, disruptive innovation and end-market preferences, which can adversely affect sales of our products and, correspondingly, our results of operations. Additionally, the quantity and price of our products sold to customers in these industries could decline despite continued growth in their respective end markets. Lower sales to customers in the automotive or communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Shortages or increased prices of raw materials could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including various chemicals and gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, aluminum, gold, silver, copper, lead frames, mold compound and ceramic packages. Generally, our agreements with suppliers of raw materials impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers of raw materials may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors beyond our control. Shortages could occur in various essential raw materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, the costs of our raw materials increases significantly, their quality deteriorates or they give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the services of third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers, and any disruption in or deterioration of the quality of the services delivered by such third parties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use third-party contractors for certain of our manufacturing activities, primarily wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to commit to purchase services based on forecasted product needs, which may be inaccurate, and, in some cases, require longer-term commitments. We are also dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized third-party suppliers for required components and materials for certain of our key technologies. Arranging for replacement manufacturers and suppliers can be time consuming and costly, and the number of qualified alternative providers can be extremely limited. Our business operations, productivity and customer relations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasted needs proved to be materially incorrect. 30 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue outside of the U.S. is derived from the Asia/Pacific region and Europe, and we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: economic and geopolitical instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); changes in regulatory requirements, international trade agreements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; licensing requirements for the import or export of certain products; exposure to different legal standards, customs, business practices, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, including changes with respect to price protection, competition practices, IP, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license requirements and restrictions, and accounts receivable collections; transportation and other supply chain delays and disruptions; power supply shortages and shutdowns; fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor laws and other employment and labor issues; currency fluctuations; currency convertibility and repatriation; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; limitations on the repatriation of earnings and potential taxation of foreign profits in the U.S.; potential violations by our international employees or third party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)); difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; and other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets, the materialization of any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to changes in tax rates or the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or have exposure to additional tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Changes to income tax regulations in the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws, could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operating activities and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, other factors or events, including business combinations and investment transactions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns or as a result of deficiencies asserted by taxing authorities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in available tax credits, increasing operations in high tax jurisdictions, and changes in tax rates, could also increase our future effective tax rate. 31 Table of Contents Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire. The final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In the United States, a number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies, but it is not possible to accurately determine the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. The distribution of any earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to the United States may be subject to United States income taxes, thus reducing our net income and materially adversely affecting our results of operations. We hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt repurchases and repayments, acquisitions, and stock repurchases. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current debt agreements or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of foreign earnings, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. We operate a global business through numerous foreign subsidiaries, and there is a risk that tax authorities will challenge our transfer pricing methodologies and/or legal entity structures, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries and are, therefore, subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between related parties be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arms length transaction between unrelated parties. There is uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. The ultimate outcome of a tax examination could differ materially from our provisions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results or operations and cash flows. Our legal organizational structure could result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any challenges to how our entities are structured or realigned or their business purpose by taxing authorities could result in us becoming subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have sizeable sales and operations in the Asia/Pacific region and Europe and a significant amount of this business is transacted in currency other than U.S. dollars. In addition, while a significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside the U.S., many of our liabilities, including our outstanding indebtedness, and certain other cash payments, such as share repurchases, are payable in U.S. dollars. As a result, currency fluctuations and changes in foreign exchange regulations can have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, repatriation of funds held outside the U.S. could have adverse tax consequences and could be subject to delay due to required local country approvals or local obligations. From time to time, we are required to make cash deposits outside of the U.S. to support bank guarantees of our obligations under certain office leases or amounts we owe to certain vendors and such cash deposits are not available for other uses as long as the related bank guarantees are outstanding. Foreign exchange regulations may also limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make interest and principal payments due under our various debt obligations. Restrictions on repatriation or the inability to use cash held abroad to fund our operations in the U.S. may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel, both in the U.S. and internationally. In the semiconductor industry, the competition for qualified personnel, particularly experienced design engineers and other technical employees, is intense, particularly when the business cycle is improving. During such periods, competitors may try to recruit our most valuable technical employees. While we devote a great deal of our attention to designing competitive compensation programs aimed at accomplishing this goal, specific elements of our compensation programs may not be competitive with those of our competitors and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel or recruit the key personnel we require. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and on our business. If we must reduce our use of equity awards to compensate our employees, our competitiveness in the employee marketplace could be adversely affected and our results of operations could vary as a result of changes in our stock-based compensation programs. We have in the past and expect to continue to issue RSUs with time-based vesting, performance-based awards and common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at the time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time as compensation tools. While this is a routine practice in many parts of the world, foreign exchange and income tax regulations in some countries make this practice more and more difficult. Such regulations tend to diminish the value of equity compensation to our employees in those countries. Our current practice is to seek stockholder approval of new, or amendments to existing, equity compensation plans. If these proposals do not receive stockholder approval, we may not be able to grant equity awards to employees at the same levels as in the past, which could materially adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, thereby materially adversely affecting our business. In addition, changes in forecasted stock-based compensation expense could cause our results of operations to vary by impacting our gross margin percentage, research and development expenses, marketing, general and administrative expenses and our tax rate. 33 Table of Contents Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could materially harm our business and reputation. Currently, certain of our U.S. employees in Pennsylvania are represented by labor unions. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to production slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in a loss of business and material damage to our reputation. In addition, union activity and compliance with international labor standards could result in higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The enforceability of our patents, trademarks, copyrights, software licenses and other IP is uncertain in certain circumstances. Effective IP protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the U.S. and internationally. The various laws and regulations governing our registered and unregistered IP assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies are subject to legislative and regulatory change and interpretation by courts. With respect to our IP generally, we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the IP right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of IP rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged IP rights of its own against us, which may materially adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to IP arising out of our research. Should we be unable to protect our IP, competitors may develop products or technologies that duplicate our products or technologies, benefit financially from innovations for which we bore the costs of development and undercut the sales and marketing of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents If our technologies are subject to claims of infringement on the IP rights of third parties, efforts to address such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may from time to time be subject to claims that we may be infringing third-party IP rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such IP rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for IP we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring such technologies. Further, we may be subject to IP litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expense, materially adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technologies and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages; indemnify customers or distributors; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of processes; or obtain licenses, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to the infringing technologies. The outcome of IP litigation is inherently uncertain and, if not resolved in our favor, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and expenditures could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air, water and ground, and we have been identified as either a primary responsible party or a potentially responsible party at sites where we or our predecessors operated or disposed of waste in the past. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other requirements, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. We have indemnities from third parties for certain environmental and health and safety liabilities for periods prior to our operations at some of our current and past sites, and we have also purchased environmental insurance to cover certain claims related to historical contamination and future releases of hazardous substances. However, we cannot assure you that such indemnification arrangements and insurance will cover any or all of our material environmental costs. In addition, the nature of our operations exposes us to the continuing risk of environmental and health and safety liabilities including: changes in U.S. and international environmental or health and safety laws or regulations; the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements and insurance policies relating to environmental liabilities; the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any future environmental claims, including the cost of clean-up of currently unknown environmental conditions; or the cost of fines, penalties or other legal liability, should we fail to comply with environmental or health and safety laws or regulations. 35 Table of Contents To the extent that we face unforeseen environmental or health and safety compliance costs or remediation expenses or liabilities that are not covered by indemnities or insurance, we may bear the full effect of such costs, expense and liabilities which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Like most publicly traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which requires managements annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. There can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined companys internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including delaying or failing to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our internal control over financial reporting or the identification and reporting of a material weakness, may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of such transactions, and the trading price of our common stock or other securities may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. As suppliers become more integrally involved in electrical design, OEMs are increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are increasingly looking to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results in a recall, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. In certain instances, we attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions of sale and other customer contracts. There is no assurance that such limitations will be effective, and to the extent that we are liable for damages in excess of the revenues and profits we received from the products involved, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to disruptions or breaches of our secured network that could irreparably damage our reputation and our business, expose us to liability and materially adversely affect our results of operations. We routinely collect and store sensitive data, including IP and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We may be subject to disruptions or breaches of our secured network caused by computer viruses, illegal hacking, criminal fraud or impersonation, acts of vandalism or terrorism or employee error. Our security measures and/or those of our third party service providers and/or customers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber security breaches and vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may materially impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information or that of other parties with which we do business, an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized transfer of cash or other of our assets, the unauthorized release of customer or employee data or a violation of privacy or other laws. In addition, to the extent we sell products containing bugs or viruses to our customers, we may be exposed to liability from the end-users of such products. Any of the foregoing could irreparably damage our reputation and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales through distributors and other third parties expose us to risks that, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face risks related to our sale of a significant, and increasing, portion of our products through distributors. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the FCPA or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2016, we had $3,806.8 million of outstanding indebtedness. We may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future to repay or refinance other outstanding debt, to make acquisitions or for other purposes, and if we incur additional debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to our potential and current investors, including: our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; 37 Table of Contents the timing, amount and execution of our capital allocation policy, including our share repurchase program, could be affected by the degree to which we are leveraged; a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests; some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates; our debt agreements may contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to, and reduce our flexibility to respond to, general economic downturns and adverse industry and business conditions; as our long-term debt ages, we may need to renegotiate or repay such debt or seek additional financing; to the extent the debt we incur requires collateral to secure such indebtedness, our assets could be at risk and our flexibility related to such assets could be limited; our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the semiconductor industry; our substantial leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage vis--vis our competitors who may have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures; and our level of indebtedness may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors. To the extent that we continue to maintain or expand our significant indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Indebtedness incurred in connection with the Fairchild Transaction could materially and adversely affect us by, among other things, limiting our ability to conduct our operations and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In connection with our acquisition of Fairchild, we entered into the Amended Credit Agreement providing for the $600 million Revolving Credit Facility, which provides liquidity to us, and the $2.4 billion Term Loan B Facility, which was used to fund the acquisition of Fairchild. The obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are collateralized by a lien on substantially all of the personal property and material real property assets of the Company and most of the Companys domestic subsidiaries. As a result, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement, the lenders could take possession of and foreclose on the pledged collateral securing the indebtedness, in which case we would be at risk of losing the related collateral, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, subject to customary exceptions, the Amended Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayment under certain circumstances, which may result in prepaying outstanding amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan B Facility rather than using funds for other business purposes. Our acquisition-related financing could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including, among other things, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes and could reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. 38 Table of Contents The agreements relating to our indebtedness, including the Amended Credit Agreement, may restrict our ability to operate our business, and as a result may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our debt agreements, including the Amended Credit Agreement, contain, and any future debt agreements may include, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictive covenants may significantly limit our ability to: incur additional debt, including guarantees; incur liens; make certain investments; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; make some acquisitions; engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other change in control transactions; make distributions to our stockholders; engage in restructuring activities; engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; and issue or repurchase stock or other securities. Such agreements may also require us to satisfy other requirements, including maintaining certain financial ratios and condition tests. Our ability to meet these requirements can be affected by events beyond our control and we may be unable to meet them. To the extent we fail to meet any such requirements and are in default under our debt obligations, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us. To the extent that we are unable to engage in activities that support the growth, profitability and competitiveness of our business, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, and any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities and proceeds from sales of assets in the ordinary course of business to satisfy our debt obligations as they come due, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling additional assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that, if we were required to repurchase any of our debt securities upon a change of control or other specified event, our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our collateralized debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which could materially negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A default under our committed credit facilities, including our Amended Credit Agreement, could also limit our ability to make further borrowings under those facilities, which could materially adversely affect our business and results and operations. In addition, to the extent we are not able to borrow or refinance debt obligations, we may have to issue additional shares of our common stock, which would have a dilutive effect to the current stockholders. 39 Table of Contents An event of default under any agreement relating to our outstanding indebtedness could cross default other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately, which default or acceleration of debt could cross default other indebtedness. Any such cross default would put immediate pressure on our liquidity and financial condition and would amplify the risks described above with regards to being unable to repay our indebtedness when due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and, as described above, any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our operating subsidiaries, which may have no independent obligation to repay our debt, are not able to make cash available to us for such repayment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay amounts due on such indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions or payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness and, as described above, any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations under our variable rate indebtedness could increase significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Borrowings under certain of our facilities from time to time, including under our Amended Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest and as a result expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. During the first quarter of 2017, we entered into interest rate swaps that involved the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility for a portion of our Term Loan B Facility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. To the extent the risk materializes and is not fully mitigated, the resulting increase in interest expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Servicing the 1.00% Notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under the 1.00% Notes in a timely manner. In June 2015, we issued $690.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.00% Notes. Holders of the 1.00% Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined under the indenture governing the 1.00% Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 40 Table of Contents 100% of the principal amount of the 1.00% Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In addition, upon conversion of the 1.00% Notes to be repurchased, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the 1.00% Notes being converted. Moreover, we will be required to repay the 1.00% Notes in cash at their maturity, unless earlier converted or repurchased. Servicing the 1.00% Notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under the 1.00% Notes. Our ability to make cash payments in connection with conversions of the 1.00% Notes, repurchase the 1.00% Notes in the event of a fundamental change or repay such notes at maturity will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the 1.00% Notes, we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would dilute existing stockholders. In addition, if we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the 1.00% Notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the 1.00% Notes, which could cross default other debt and materially, adversely harm our business. The terms of the Amended Credit Agreement limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur, but the terms of the 1.00% Notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. Our decision to use our cash for other purposes, such as to make acquisitions or to repurchase our common stock, could also intensify these risks. The conditional conversion feature of the 1.00% Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, if we elect to settle the 1.00% Notes conversion in common stock, could materially dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding September 1, 2020, holders of the 1.00% Notes may convert the 1.00% Notes only if specified conditions are met. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the 1.00% Notes is triggered, holders of the 1.00% Notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 1.00% Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, if the conditional conversion feature of the 1.00% Notes is triggered, even if holders do not elect to convert their 1.00% Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 1.00% Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Any material decrease in our liquidity or reduction in our net working capital could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we elect to settle the 1.00% Notes conversion in common stock, such issuance of common stock could materially dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including stockholders who previously converted their 1.00% Notes. The fundamental change repurchase feature of our 1.00% Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our Company. The terms of our 1.00% Notes require us to repurchase the 1.00% Notes in the event of a fundamental change (as defined under the indenture governing the 1.00% Notes). In certain circumstances, a takeover of our Company could trigger an option of the holders of the 1.00% Notes to require us to repurchase the 1.00% Notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our Company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors in the 1.00% Notes, which could materially decrease the value of the 1.00% Notes. 41 Table of Contents Note hedge and warrant transactions we have entered into may materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Concurrently with the issuance of the 1.00% Notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. The convertible note hedges are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the 1.00% Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted 1.00% Notes, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds $25.96. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates have purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock following the pricing of the 1.00% Notes. The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the 1.00% Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of 1.00% Notes or following any repurchase of the 1.00% Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Counterparty risk with respect to the note hedge transactions, if realized, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the note hedge transactions. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. To the extent the option counterparties do not honor their contractual commitments with us pursuant to the note hedge transactions, we could face a material increase in our exposure to potential dilution upon any conversion of the 1.00% Notes and/or cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted 1.00% Notes, as the case may be. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer adverse tax consequences with respect to our common stock. Any such adverse tax consequences or increased cash payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may impact the value of our common stock. A large portion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Thus, small 42 Table of Contents declines in revenues could negatively affect our operating results in any given quarter. In addition to the other factors described above, factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: the timing and size of orders from our customers, including cancellations and reschedulings; the timing of introduction of new products; the gain or loss of significant customers, including as a result of industry consolidation or as a result of our acquisitions; seasonality in some of our target markets; changes in the mix of products we sell; changes in demand by the end-users of our customers products; market acceptance of our current and future products; variability of our customers product life cycles; availability of supplies and manufacturing services; changes in manufacturing yields or other factors affecting the cost of goods sold, such as the cost and availability of raw materials and the extent of utilization of manufacturing capacity; changes in the prices of our products, which can be affected by the level of our customers and end-users demand, technological change, product obsolescence, competition or other factors; cancellations, changes or delays of deliveries to us by our third-party manufacturers, including as a result of the availability of manufacturing capacity and the proposed terms of manufacturing arrangements; our liquidity and access to capital; and our research and development activities and the funding thereof. An adverse change or development in any of the above factors could cause the market price of common stock to materially decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of the common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, among others, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; the issuance or repurchase of shares of our common stock; changes in securities analysts estimates of our financial performance; changes in market valuations of similar companies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock in the past has had significant variance and we cannot accurately predict every potential risk that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. 43 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent the acquisition of our Company, which could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions: establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which is preferred stock that our board of directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval and that could be issued with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt; and require the approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock to amend any of these provisions in our certificate of incorporation or by-laws. Although we believe these provisions make a higher third-party bid more likely by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if an initial offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Any delay or prevention of an acquisition of our Company that would have been beneficial to our stockholders could materially decrease the value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters as well as certain design center and research and development operations are located in approximately 1.4 million square feet of building space on property that we own in Phoenix, Arizona. We also lease properties around the world for use as sales offices, design centers, research and development labs, warehouses, logistic centers, trading offices and manufacturing support. The size and/or location of these properties change from time to time based on business requirements. We operate distribution centers, which are leased or contracted through a third party, in locations throughout Asia, Europe and the Americas. See Business - Manufacturing Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information on properties used in our manufacturing operations. While these facilities are primarily used in manufacturing operations, they also include office, utility, laboratory, warehouse and unused space. Additionally, we own research and development facilities located in Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United States. Our joint venture in Leshan, China also owns manufacturing, warehouse, laboratory, office and other unused space. We believe that our facilities around the world, whether owned or leased, are well maintained. Certain of our properties are subject to encumbrances such as mortgages and liens. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information. In addition, due to local law restrictions, the land upon which our facilities are located in certain foreign locations is subject to varying long-term leases. See Business - Manufacturing Operations and Sales, Marketing and Distribution included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details on our properties and Business-Governmental Regulation for further details on environmental regulation of our properties. 44 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies under the heading Legal Matters in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of legal proceedings and related matters. Item 4 . Mine Safety Disclosure None. 45 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded under the symbol ON on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for the fiscal periods indicated as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Range of Sales Price High Low 2015 First Quarter $ 13.31 $ 9.65 Second Quarter $ 13.50 $ 11.31 Third Quarter $ 11.48 $ 8.40 Fourth Quarter $ 11.62 $ 9.53 2016 First Quarter $ 9.92 $ 6.97 Second Quarter $ 10.15 $ 8.21 Third Quarter $ 12.55 $ 8.11 Fourth Quarter $ 13.32 $ 10.74 As of February 17, 2017, there were approximately 247 holders of record of our common stock and 419,610,858 shares of common stock outstanding. We have neither declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering. Our future dividend policy with respect to our common stock will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, debt restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion. Our outstanding debt facilities may restrict our ability to pay dividends from time to time. Our Amended Credit Agreement permits us to pay cash dividends to our common stockholders, if after giving effect thereto, the consolidated total net leverage ratio (calculated in accordance with our Amended Credit Agreement) does not exceed 2.50 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2016, we were permitted to pay up to $100.0 million in cash dividends under our Amended Credit Agreement based on the consolidated total net leverage ratio. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further discussion of our Amended Credit Agreement. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2016. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth certain of our selected financial data for the periods indicated. The statement of operations and balance sheet data set forth below for the years ended and as of December 31, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. The table below includes consolidated results, including our recent acquisitions, thus comparability will be materially affected. 46 Table of Contents You should read this information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in millions, except per share data) Statement of Operations data: Revenues $ 3,906.9 $ 3,495.8 $ 3,161.8 $ 2,782.7 $ 2,894.9 Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net (1) 33.2 9.3 30.5 33.2 163.7 Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges (2) 2.2 3.8 9.6 49.5 Net income (loss) 184.5 209.0 192.1 153.6 (92.9 ) Diluted net income (loss) per common share attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation 0.43 0.48 0.43 0.33 (0.21 ) Balance Sheet data: Total assets $ 6,924.4 $ 3,869.6 $ 3,822.1 $ 3,292.5 $ 3,374.1 Long-term debt, including current maturities, less capital lease obligations 3,609.3 1,365.7 1,150.9 887.5 918.6 Capital lease obligations 13.0 28.2 40.8 53.4 91.1 Total stockholders equity 1,845.0 1,631.9 1,647.4 1,523.6 1,427.9 (1) Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net primarily includes employee severance and other exit costs associated with our worldwide cost reduction and profitability enhancement programs, asset impairments and any other infrequent or unusual items. See Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded $9.6 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income relating to a reporting unit in our Analog Solutions Group. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded $49.5 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income relating to certain reporting units in our Power Solutions Group and former System Solutions Group segment. See Note 5: Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information on goodwill and intangible asset impairments. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties, and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Executive Overview This executive overview presents summarized information regarding our industry, markets, business and operating trends only. For further information relating to the information summarized herein, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in its entirety. 47 Table of Contents Industry Overview In recent years, worldwide semiconductor industry sales have tracked the impact of the financial crisis, subsequent recovery and persistent economic uncertainty. According to WSTS (an industry research firm), worldwide semiconductor industry sales were $338.9 billion in 2016, an increase of approximately 1.1% from $335.2 billion in 2015. We participate in unit and revenue surveys and use data summarized by WSTS to evaluate overall semiconductor market trends and also to track our progress against the market in the areas we provide semiconductor components. The following table sets forth total worldwide semiconductor industry revenues and revenues in our Serviceable Addressable Market (SAM) since 2012: Year Ended December 31, Worldwide Semiconductor Industry Sales (1) Percentage Change Serviceable Addressable Market Sales (1) (2) Percentage Change (in billions) (in billions) 2016 $ 338.9 1.1 % $ 118.9 2.6 % 2015 $ 335.2 (0.2)% $ 115.9 (0.2)% 2014 $ 335.8 9.9 % $ 116.1 11.3 % 2013 $ 305.6 4.8 % $ 104.3 0.6 % 2012 $ 291.6 (2.6)% $ 103.7 (3.4)% (1) Based on shipment information published by WSTS. WSTS collects this information based on product shipments, which differs from how we recognize revenue on shipments to certain distributors as described in Note 2: Significant Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We believe the data provided by WSTS is reliable, but we have not independently verified it. WSTS periodically revises its information. We assume no obligation to update such information. (2) Our SAM comprises the following specific WSTS product categories: (a) discrete products (all discrete semiconductors other than sensors, microwave power transistors/modules, microwave diodes, and microwave transistors, power modules, logic and optoelectronics); (b) standard analog products (amplifiers, VREGs and references, comparators, ASSP consumer, ASSP communications, ASSP computer, ASSP automotive and ASSP industrial and others); (c) standard logic products (general purpose logic); (d) standard product logic (consumer other, computer other peripherals, wired / wireless communications, automotive, industrial and multipurpose); (e) CMOS and CCD image sensors; (f) memory; (g) microcontrollers and (h) motor control modules. Our SAM is derived using the most recent information available, excluding foundry exposure, at the time of the filing of each respective periods annual report and is revised in subsequent periods to reflect final results. As indicated above, worldwide semiconductor sales increased from $291.6 billion in 2012 to $338.9 billion in 2016. The increase of 1.1% from 2015 to 2016 reflected improving macroeconomic conditions in the second half of 2016. Sales in our SAM increased from $103.7 billion in 2012 to $118.9 billion in 2016. The increase of 2.6% from 2015 to 2016 is consistent with the trend in the worldwide semiconductor market. The most recently published estimates of WSTS project a compound annual growth rate in our SAM of approximately 4.0% for the next three years. These projections are not ours and may not be indicative of actual results. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical. During a down cycle, unit demand and pricing have tended to fall in tandem, resulting in revenue declines. In response to such declines, manufacturers have 48 Table of Contents reduced or shut down production capacity. When new applications or other factors have caused demand to strengthen, production volumes have historically stabilized and then grown again. As market unit demand reaches levels above capacity production capabilities, shortages begin to occur, which typically causes pricing power to swing back from customers to manufacturers, thus prompting further capacity expansion. Such expansion has typically resulted in overcapacity following a decrease in demand, which has triggered another similar cycle. ON Semiconductor Overview We are driving innovation in energy efficient electronics. Our extensive portfolio of sensors, power management, connectivity, custom and SoC, analog, logic, timing, and discrete devices helps customers efficiently solve their design challenges in advanced electronic systems and products. Our power management and motor driver semiconductor components control, convert, protect and monitor the supply of power to the different elements within a wide variety of electronic devices. Our custom ASICs use analog, MCU, DSP, mixed-signal and advanced logic capabilities to act as the brain behind many of our automotive, medical, aerospace/defense, consumer and industrial customers products. Our signal management semiconductor components provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing, communications and industrial systems. Our growing portfolio of sensors, including image sensors, optical image stabilization and auto focus devices provide advanced solutions for automotive, wireless, industrial and consumer applications. Our standard semiconductor components serve as building blocks within virtually all types of electronic devices. These various products fall into the logic, analog, discrete, image sensors, IoT and memory categories used by the WSTS group. Our new product development efforts continue to be focused on building solutions in product areas that appeal to customers in focused market segments and across multiple high growth applications. We collaborate with our customers to identify desired innovations in electronic systems in each end-market that we serve. This enables us to participate in the fastest growing sectors of the market. We also innovate in advanced packaging technologies to support ongoing size reduction in electronic systems and in advanced thermal packaging to support high performance power conversion applications. It is our practice to regularly re-evaluate our research and development spending, to assess the deployment of resources and to review the funding of high growth technologies. We deploy people and capital with the goal of maximizing our investment in research and development in order to facilitate continued growth by targeting innovative products and solutions for high growth applications that position us to outperform the industry. Our design expertise in analog, digital, mixed signal and imaging ICs, combined with our extensive portfolio of standard products enable the company to offer comprehensive, value added solutions to our global customers for their electronics systems. We believe that some of the key factors and trends affecting our results of operations include, but not limited to: Our acquisition of Fairchild and our integration of Fairchilds business into our operations, including through the segment realignment described below; Macroeconomic conditions affecting the semiconductor industry; The cyclicality and seasonality of the semiconductor industry; The global economic climate; Our significant indebtedness, including the indebtedness incurred in connection with our acquisition of Fairchild; An uncertain corporate tax environment, both in the U.S. and abroad; An uncertain political climate and related impacts on global trade; The effects of trends in the automotive industry on our revenues; and 49 Table of Contents Competitive conditions, and in particular consolidation, within our industry. Fairchild Acquisition On September 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Fairchild, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Fairchild Agreement) with each of Fairchild and Falcon Operations Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiary, which provided for the acquisition of Fairchild by us (the Fairchild Transaction). The purchase price totaled $2,532.2 million and was funded by the borrowings against our Term Loan B Facility and a partial draw of our Revolving Credit Facility and with cash on hand. We believe that this acquisition creates a power semiconductor leader with strong capabilities in a rapidly consolidating semiconductor industry. Ultimately, we believe that the combination of Fairchild operations with our own will provide complementary product lines to offer customers the full spectrum of high, medium and low voltage products, and we will continue to pioneer technology and design innovation in efficient energy consumption to help our customers achieve success and drive value for our partners and employees around the world. We believe the acquisition also expands our footprint in wireless communication products, particularly in high efficiency power conversions and USB Type C communication and power delivery. See Business - 2016 Acquisition Activity, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. See Note 4: Acquisitions and Divestitures in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Recent ON Semiconductor Results Our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $3,906.9 million, an increase of approximately 11.8% from $3,495.8 million from the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was attributable to the acquisition of Fairchild , partially offset by lower revenues in our Image Sensor Group. During 2016, we reported net income attributable to ON Semiconductor of $182.1 million compared to $206.2 million in 2015. Our gross margin decreased by approximately 90 basis points to 33.2% in 2016 from 34.1% in 2015. The decrease was due to the expensing of the fair market value of inventory step-up from the Fairchild acquisition of $67.5 million. Excluding the expensing of the fair market value of inventory step-up, the increase in gross margin was primarily driven by higher factory utilization and product mix. ON Semiconductor Q1 2017 Outlook Based upon product booking trends, backlog levels, and estimated turns levels, we estimate that our revenues will be approximately $1,215 to $1,265 million in the first quarter of 2017. Backlog levels for the first quarter of 2017 represent approximately 80% to 85% of our anticipated first quarter 2017 revenues. For the first quarter of 2017, we estimate that gross margin as a percentage of revenues will be approximately 33.4% to 34.8%. Statements related to our outlook for the first quarter of 2017 are based on our current expectations, forecasts, estimates and assumptions. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. See Risk Factors for additional information. Business and Macroeconomic Environment Influence on Cost Savings and Restructuring Activities In 2016 and 2017, our initiatives have been and will be focused on synergy related cost reductions from the Fairchild acquisition. Additionally, we have historically pursued, and expect to continue to pursue, other cost 50 Table of Contents saving initiatives to align our overall cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our expected revenue, spending and capacity levels based on our current sales and manufacturing projections. We have recognized efficiencies from previously implemented restructuring activities and programs and continue to implement profitability enhancement programs to improve our cost structure. However, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. There can be no assurances that we will adequately forecast economic conditions or that we will effectively align our cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our revenue, spending and capacity levels in the future. See Results of Operations - Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net below, along with Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information relating to our most recent cost saving initiatives. Segment Realignment in 2016 During the third quarter of 2016, we realigned our operating and reporting segments into the following three operating and reporting segments to optimize anticipated efficiencies resulting from our acquisition of Fairchild: Power Solutions Group, Analog Solutions Group and Image Sensor Group. The operating results of the System Solutions Group, which was previously our fourth operating and reporting segment, and which did not have goodwill, are now assigned among the three current operating and reporting segments. Prior year periods of segment information presented below reflect the current three operating and reporting segments. Our Power Solutions Group and Analog Solutions Group operating and reporting segments include the business acquired in the Fairchild Transaction. Results of Operations Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 include the results of operations from our acquisitions of Fairchild, AXSEM, Aptina, and Truesense on September 19, 2016, July 15, 2015, August 15, 2014 and April 30, 2014, respectively. 51 Table of Contents Operating Results The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): Year ended December 31, Dollar Change 2016 2015 2014 2015 to 2016 2014 to 2015 Revenues $ 3,906.9 $ 3,495.8 $ 3,161.8 $ 411.1 $ 334.0 Cost of revenues (exclusive of amortization shown below) 2,610.0 2,302.6 2,076.9 307.4 225.7 Gross profit 1,296.9 1,193.2 1,084.9 103.7 108.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 452.3 396.7 366.6 55.6 30.1 Selling and marketing 238.0 204.3 200.0 33.7 4.3 General and administrative 230.3 182.3 180.9 48.0 1.4 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 104.8 135.7 68.4 (30.9 ) 67.3 Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net 33.2 9.3 30.5 23.9 (21.2 ) Goodwill and intangible asset impairment 2.2 3.8 9.6 (1.6 ) (5.8 ) Total operating expenses 1,060.8 932.1 856.0 128.7 76.1 Operating income 236.1 261.1 228.9 (25.0 ) 32.2 Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense (145.3 ) (49.7 ) (34.1 ) (95.6 ) (15.6 ) Interest income 4.5 1.1 1.5 3.4 (0.4 ) Gain on divestiture of business 92.2 92.2 Loss on modification or extinguishment of debt (6.3 ) (0.4 ) (5.9 ) (0.4 ) Other (0.6 ) 7.7 (4.4 ) (8.3 ) 12.1 Other (expense) income, net (55.5 ) (41.3 ) (37.0 ) (14.2 ) (4.3 ) Income before income taxes 180.6 219.8 191.9 (39.2 ) 27.9 Income tax (provision) benefit 3.9 (10.8 ) 0.2 14.7 (11.0 ) Net income 184.5 209.0 192.1 (24.5 ) 16.9 Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (2.4 ) (2.8 ) (2.4 ) 0.4 (0.4 ) Net income attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 182.1 $ 206.2 $ 189.7 $ (24.1 ) $ 16.5 Revenues Revenues were $3,906.9 million, $3,495.8 million and $3,161.8 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase of $411.1 million, or approximately 12%, in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily attributable to approximately 21.2% and 10.7% increases in revenue in our Power Solutions Group and Analog Solutions Group, respectively, which included Fairchild revenues of $411.5 million between September 19, 2016 and December 31, 2016. This increase was partially offset by lower revenues in our Image Sensor Group. 52 Table of Contents The increase in revenues from 2015 compared to 2014 of $334.0 million, or approximately 11%, was primarily attributed to $411.0 million of additional revenue in the Image Sensor Group provided by a full year of operations from the 2014 acquisitions of Aptina and Truesense, partially offset by decreased revenue from our former System Solutions Group segment and a decrease in average selling prices of approximately 8%. Revenues by reportable segment for each of 2016, 2015 and 2014 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2016 As a % of Revenue (1) 2015 As a % of Revenue (1) 2014 As a % of Revenue (1) Power Solutions Group $ 1,708.6 43.7% $ 1,409.9 40.3% $ 1,423.5 45.0% Analog Solutions Group 1,481.5 37.9% 1,338.6 38.3% 1,415.8 44.8% Image Sensor Group 716.8 18.3% 747.3 21.4% 322.5 10.2% Total revenues $ 3,906.9 $ 3,495.8 $ 3,161.8 (1) Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Revenues from the Power Solutions Group Revenues from the Power Solutions Group increased by $298.7 million, or approximately 21%, during 2016 compared to 2015, and decreased by $13.6 million, or approximately 1%, during 2015 compared to 2014. The 2016 increase was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Fairchild, which had $277.5 million in revenues across various products within this segment. Revenues from our discrete products increased by $215.0 million, or approximately 35%, revenues from our new IPMS and Optoelectronics products increased by $45.8 million and $20.8 million, respectively, and revenues from our analog products increased by $20.5 million, or approximately 6%. The 2015 decrease resulted from a decrease in revenues from our IPM products of $14.1 million, or approximately 13%, and a decrease in revenues from TMOS products of $14.6 million, or approximately 6%, partially offset by an increase in revenues from memory products of $16.7 million, or approximately 24%. Revenues from the Analog Solutions Group Revenues from the Analog Solutions Group increased by $142.9 million, or approximately 11%, during 2016 compared to 2015 and decreased by $77.2 million, or approximately 5%, during 2015 compared to 2014. The 2016 increase was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Fairchild, which had $134.0 million in revenues across various products within this segment. Additionally, revenues from our legacy analog products increased $19.9 million, or approximately 5%, partially offset by decreased revenue in our LSI products of $15.0 million, or approximately 5%. The 2015 decrease resulted from a decrease in revenues from our LSI products of $62.0 million, or approximately 18%, and a decrease in revenues from analog products of $18.5 million, or approximately 5%. Revenues from the Image Sensor Group Revenues from the Image Sensor Group decreased by $30.5 million, or approximately 4%, during 2016 compared to 2015 and increased by $424.8 million, or approximately 132%, during 2015 compared to 2014. 53 Table of Contents The 2016 decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in revenues from our consumer products of $57.6 million, or approximately 9%, offset by an increase in revenues from our LSI products of $15.2 million, or approximately 51%, and an increase in revenues from our ASIC products of $11.8 million, or approximately 12%. The 2015 increase was primarily attributable to $409.6 million of additional revenue generated by Aptina and Truesense during their first full year of operations after acquisition, as compared to 2014, in which the two businesses generated $262.4 million of revenue during the period of 2014 after the closing of the acquisitions. Revenues by Geographic Location Revenues by geographic location, including local sales made by operations within each area, based on sales billed from the respective country, are summarized as follows (dollars in millions): 2016 As a % of Revenue (1) 2015 As a % of Revenue (1) 2014 As a % of Revenue (1) United States $ 588.4 15.1% $ 544.3 15.6% $ 497.0 15.7% United Kingdom 541.1 13.8% 503.2 14.4% 497.9 15.7% Hong Kong 1,086.8 27.8% 874.4 25.0% 975.3 30.8% Japan 334.5 8.6% 281.7 8.1% 293.1 9.3% Singapore 1,110.4 28.4% 1,120.7 32.1% 786.5 24.9% Other 245.7 6.3% 171.5 4.9% 112.0 3.5% Total $ 3,906.9 $ 3,495.8 $ 3,161.8 (1) Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. For additional information, see the table of revenues by geographic location included in Note 18: Segment Information in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Gross Profit and Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross profit by reportable segment for each of 2016, 2015, and 2014 was as follows (dollars in millions): 2016 As a % of Segment Revenue (2) 2015 As a % of Segment Revenue (2) 2014 As a % of Segment Revenue (2) Power Solutions Group $ 566.3 33.1 % $ 428.7 30.4 % $ 446.8 31.4 % Analog Solutions Group 589.0 39.8 % 537.9 40.2 % 574.5 40.6 % Image Sensor Group 236.5 33.0 % 242.4 32.4 % 97.0 30.1 % Gross profit for all segments $ 1,391.8 $ 1,209.0 $ 1,118.3 Unallocated manufacturing (1) (94.9 ) (2.4)% (15.8 ) (0.5)% (33.4 ) (1.1)% Total gross profit $ 1,296.9 33.2 % $ 1,193.2 34.1 % 1,084.9 34.3 % (1) Unallocated manufacturing costs are being shown as a percentage of total revenue (Includes expensing of the fair market value step-up of inventory of $67.5 million during 2016). (2) Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. 54 Table of Contents Our gross profit was $1,296.9 million, $1,193.2 million and $1,084.9 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The gross profit increase of $103.7 million, or approximately 9%, for 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to the contributions from Fairchild, which generated approximately $87 million of gross profit for 2016. The gross profit increase of $108.3 million, or approximately 10%, for 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to the contributions of acquisitions during 2014, including $27.0 million for the amortization of the fair market value of inventory step-up from our acquisitions during 2014 for which there was no amortization during 2015, and manufacturing and cost improvements that were partially offset by decreased average selling prices. Gross margin decreased to approximately 33.2% during 2016 compared to approximately 34.1% during 2015. Excluding the expensing of the fair market value of inventory step-up from the Fairchild acquisition of $67.5 million, gross margin increased, primarily due to higher factory utilization and product mix. Gross margin decreased to approximately 34.1% during 2015 compared to approximately 34.3% during 2014. This decrease was primarily driven by a larger proportion of our revenues provided by our Image Sensor Group which generates lower gross margin levels than our Analog Solutions Group and Power Solutions Group. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses were $452.3 million, $396.7 million and $366.6 million, representing approximately 12%, 11% and 12% of revenues, for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses of $55.6 million, or approximately 14%, during 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Fairchild, which added to several categories of research and development expenses totaling $28.8 million. Research and development expenses unrelated to the Fairchild Transaction increased by $26.8 million, primarily in the area of payroll, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs, pension losses and IP related activities. The increase in research and development expenses of $30.1 million, or approximately 8%, during 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily associated with an increase of $50.4 million from expenses attributable to the operations of Aptina and Truesense for the full period in 2015. These expenses were partially offset by lower payroll costs, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs, in our Analog Solutions Group and former System Solutions Group segment. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $238.0 million, $204.3 million and $200.0 million, representing approximately 6% of revenues in each year period, for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in selling and marketing expenses of $33.7 million, or approximately 16%, during 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Fairchild, which had selling and marketing expenses of $26.7 million, primarily in the area of payroll, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs. There were also increases in expenses related to outside services and travel. 55 Table of Contents The increase in selling and marketing expenses of $4.3 million, or approximately 2%, during 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily associated with an increase of $23.5 million for expenses attributable to the operations of Aptina and Truesense for the full period in 2015. These expenses were significantly offset by lower payroll costs, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs in our Analog Solutions Group, Power Solutions Group and former System Solutions Group segment. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $230.3 million, $182.3 million and $180.9 million, representing approximately 6%, 5% and 6% of revenues, for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $48.0 million, or approximately 26%, during 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Fairchild, which had general and administrative expenses of $36.9 million, primarily in the area of payroll, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs, outside services, travel related expenses, as well as acquisition related expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $1.4 million, or approximately 1%, during 2015 compared to 2014 includes an increase of approximately $14.6 million for expenses attributable to the operations of Aptina and Truesense for the full period in 2015, partially offset by lower payroll, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs in our Power Solutions Group, Analog Solutions Group and former System Solutions Group. Amortization of AcquisitionRelated Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $104.8 million, $135.7 million and $68.4 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease of $30.9 million during 2016 compared to 2015 was attributable to the declining amortization of our Aptina and Truesense intangible assets, partially offset by the amortization of our intangible assets acquired from the Fairchild acquisition. Amortization of acquired intangible assets from the Fairchild Transaction was $12.6 million between September 19, 2016 and December 31, 2016. The increase in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets during 2015 compared to 2014 was attributable to a full period of the amortization of intangible assets assumed as a result of our acquisitions of Aptina and Truesense. See Note 4: Acquisition and Divestitures and Note 5: Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to intangible assets. Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net was $33.2 million, $9.3 million and $30.5 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The information below summarizes the major activities in each year. For additional information, see Note 6: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 2016 During 2016, we recorded approximately $33.2 million of net charges related to our restructuring programs, consisting primarily of $25.7 million of post-Fairchild acquisition restructuring costs, $5.3 million of former 56 Table of Contents System Solutions Group segment voluntary workforce reduction program costs, and $2.1 million of manufacturing relocation program costs. 2015 During 2015, we recorded approximately $9.3 million of net charges related to our restructuring programs, consisting primarily of $3.5 million of employee separation charges from our European marketing organization relocation plan and $4.8 million of general workforce reductions. Total Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net, was partially offset by a $3.4 million gain from the sale of assets. During the first quarter of 2015, we announced that we would relocate our European customer marketing organization from France to Slovakia and Germany. As a result, six positions are expected to be eliminated. We recorded $3.5 million of related employee separation charges during 2015. The impacted employees left the Company during the second half of 2016. During the third quarter of 2015, management approved and commenced implementation of restructuring actions, primarily targeted workforce reductions. We notified approximately 150 employees of their employment termination, the majority of which had exited by the end of 2015. The total expense for 2015 was $4.8 million. 2014 During the fourth quarter of 2013, we initiated a voluntary retirement program for employees of certain of our former System Solutions Group segment subsidiaries in Japan (the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program). Approximately 350 employees opted to retire under the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program, of which all employees had exited by the end of 2014. For 2014, we recognized approximately $10.4 million of employee separation charges related to the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program. In connection with the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program, approximately 70 contractor positions were also identified for elimination, all of which all had exited by the end of 2015. During 2014, an additional 40 positions were identified for elimination, as an extension of the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program, consisting of 20 employees and 20 contractors, substantially all of whom had exited by the end of 2014. As a result of the Q4 2013 Voluntary Retirement Program, we recognized a pension curtailment benefit associated with the affected employees of $4.5 million during 2014, which is recorded in Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net. See Note 11: Employee Benefit Plans in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. During 2014, we initiated further voluntary retirement activities applicable to an additional 60 to 70 positions for certain of our former System Solutions Group segment subsidiaries in Japan, consisting of employees and contractors. Substantially all personnel had exited under this program by December 31, 2014. On October 6, 2013, we announced a plan to close KSS (the KSS Plan). Pursuant to the KSS Plan, a majority of the production from KSS was transferred to other of our manufacturing facilities. The KSS Plan includes the elimination of approximately 170 full time and 40 contract employees. During 2014, we recorded approximately $7.8 million of employee separation charges and $2.3 million of exit costs related to the KSS Plan. 57 Table of Contents As a result of the KSS facility closure, we recognized a $2.1 million pension curtailment benefit associated with the affected employees during 2014, which was recorded in Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net. See Note 11: Employee Benefit Plans in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Indefinite and Long-Lived Asset Impairment Charges 2016 During 2016, we canceled certain of our previously capitalized IPRD projects and recorded impairment losses of $2.2 million included in the Goodwill and intangible asset impairment caption in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 2015 During 2015, we canceled certain of our previously capitalized IPRD projects and recorded impairment losses of $3.8 million included in the Goodwill and intangible asset impairment caption in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 2014 During 2014, we determined that approximately $8.7 million in carrying value of goodwill relating to one of our reporting units in the Analog Solutions Group was impaired resulting from a decline in estimated future cash flows. In connection with this impairment, we wrote-off approximately $0.9 million of intangible assets and $4.7 million of other long-lived assets. See Note 5: Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Other Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $95.6 million to $145.3 million during 2016 compared to $49.7 million in 2015, primarily due to the substantial indebtedness incurred in order to acquire Fairchild. Interest expense increased by $15.6 million, or approximately 46%, to $49.7 million during 2015, up from $34.1 million in 2014, primarily due to additional amortization of debt discount on our 1.00% Notes. We expect interest expense to remain substantial in future periods as we service the debt we incurred in connection with the Fairchild Transaction. We recorded amortization of debt discount to interest expense of $26.0 million, $17.5 million and $7.0 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our average gross amount of long-term debt balance (including current maturities) during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $2,661.3 million, $1,361.6 million and $1,085.6 million, respectively. Our weighted average interest rate on our gross amount of long-term debt (including current maturities) was approximately 5.5%, 3.7% and 3.1% per annum in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources - Key Financing and Capital Events below and Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of the indebtedness incurred for the Fairchild Transaction and our refinancing activities. 58 Table of Contents Gain on Divestiture of Business Gain on divestiture of business was $92.2 million during 2016. On August 29, 2016, the Company sold two lines of business for $104.0 million in cash. In connection with the sale, the Company recorded a gain of $92.2 million after, among other things, transferring inventory of $4.1 million to Littelfuse, Inc., writing off goodwill of $3.4 million, and deferring $4.3 million of the proceeds to be recognized in the future. See Note 4: Acquisitions and Divestitures in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information. Loss on Modification or Extinguishment of Debt 2016 Loss on modification or extinguishment of debt increased by $5.9 million from $0.4 million to $6.3 million from 2015 to 2016, due to the execution of the First Amendment, which resulted in a debt extinguishment charge of $4.7 million, and the termination and replacement of our senior revolving credit facility by the Revolving Credit Facility, which resulted in a debt modification and write-off of $1.6 million in unamortized debt issuance costs. 2015 During 2015, we amended our senior revolving credit facility to, among other things, increase the borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion and reset the facilitys five year maturity. As a result of the amendment, we wrote-off $0.4 million of existing debt issuance costs associated with the facility, resulting in a loss during 2016. Other Other income decreased by $8.3 million, from income of $7.7 million in 2015 to an expense of $0.6 million in 2016. Other income increased by $12.1 million, from an expense of $4.4 million in 2014 to income of $7.7 million in 2015. The change from year to year is largely attributable to fluctuations in foreign currencies against the dollar for the period, net of the impact from our hedging activity, along with gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) We recorded an income tax benefit of $3.9 million, an income tax provision of $10.8 million and an income tax benefit of $0.2 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The income tax benefit for 2016 consisted primarily of the reversal of $359.8 million of our previously established valuation allowance against part of our U.S. federal and foreign deferred tax assets and the release of $1.9 million for reserves and interest for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions which were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during 2016. This is partially offset by $310.8 million related to the reversal of the prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion, $43.5 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations and $3.5 million of new reserves and interest on existing reserves for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions. The income tax provision for 2015 consisted of the reversal of $12.1 million of our previously established valuation allowance against our foreign deferred tax assets, the release of $4.3 million for reserves and interest 59 Table of Contents for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions that were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during 2015, and a change in tax rate that favorably impacted deferred balances by $1.6 million. This is partially offset by $24.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations and $4.4 million of new reserves and interest on existing reserves for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions. The income tax benefit for 2014 consisted of the reversal of $23.3 million of our previously established valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of a net deferred tax liability recorded as part of the Truesense acquisition and the reversal of $4.6 million for reserves and interest for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions that were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during 2014. This is partially offset by $19.8 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, $4.6 million of new reserves and interest on existing reserves for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions, and $3.3 million of deferred federal income taxes associated with tax deductible goodwill. Our effective tax rate for 2016 was a benefit of 2.2%, which differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the release of our U.S. and Japan valuation allowances, partially offset by the reversal of the prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion. Our effective tax rate for 2015 was a provision of 4.9%, which differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% primarily due to our change in valuation allowance, deemed dividend income from foreign subsidiaries and tax rate differential in our foreign subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was a benefit of 0.1%, which differs from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to our domestic tax losses and tax rate differential in our foreign subsidiaries. The consummation of the Fairchild acquisition during the quarter ended September 30, 2016 caused the Company to reassess the prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion because of the U.S. debt incurred to fund the acquisition. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. This resulted in a change in judgment regarding the future cash flows by jurisdiction and the reversal of prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion. The change in assertion, which resulted in recording a deferred tax liability for future U.S. taxes, had a direct impact on the judgment about the realizability of the U.S. federal deferred tax assets which resulted in a release of valuation allowance. The change in the prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion resulted in an increase to income tax expense of $310.8 million, which was partially offset by a benefit of $267.9 million relating to the release of valuation allowance. The reversal of the prior years indefinite reinvestment assertion and release of the U.S. federal valuation allowance did not have an effect on our cash taxes. We have not made an indefinite reinvestment assertion related to current year foreign earnings. We expect our future tax rate to more approximate the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. The effect of the increase in the future rate is not anticipated to have an effect on our cash tax until all of our U.S. federal net operating losses and credits have been utilized. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance on a portion of our foreign tax credits and foreign net operating losses, a substantial portion of which relate to Japan net operating losses which are projected to expire prior to utilization. In addition, we also maintain a valuation allowance on a portion of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and a full valuation allowance on our U.S. capital loss carryforwards and U.S. state deferred tax assets. For additional information, see Note 15: Income Taxes in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 60 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, off-balance sheet arrangements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital, and long-term assets and liabilities. Contractual Obligations Our principal outstanding contractual obligations relate to our long-term debt, capital leases, operating leases and purchase obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2016 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in the future (in millions): Payments Due by Period Contractual obligations (1) Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Long-term debt, excluding capital leases (2) $ 4,433.7 $ 660.0 $ 263.7 $ 176.4 $ 827.0 $ 117.5 $ 2,389.1 Capital leases (2) 13.6 9.4 3.5 0.7 Operating leases (3) 148.9 37.6 26.5 17.9 13.5 9.8 43.6 Purchase obligations (3): Capital purchase obligations 86.0 81.4 2.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Inventory and external manufacturing purchase obligations 251.9 160.3 23.3 22.5 14.9 12.4 18.5 Information technology, communication and mainframe support services 19.3 10.8 4.2 3.2 0.7 0.4 Other 45.3 38.6 2.8 1.7 1.2 1.0 Total contractual obligations $ 4,998.7 $ 998.1 $ 326.6 $ 222.9 $ 857.8 $ 141.6 $ 2,451.7 (1) The table above excludes approximately $21.8 million of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the settlement of such liabilities. (2) Includes interest payments at applicable rates as of December 31, 2016. (3) These represent our off-balance sheet arrangements (See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOff-Balance Sheet Arrangements for a description of our off-balance sheet arrangements). The table also excludes our pension obligations. We expect to make cash contributions to comply with local funding requirements and required benefit payments of approximately $12.1 million in 2017. This future payment estimate assumes we continue to meet our statutory funding requirements. The timing and amount of contributions may be impacted by a number of factors, including the funded status of the plans. Beyond 2017, the actual amounts required to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory actions related to pension funding obligations. See Note 11: Employee Benefit Plans in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information on our pension obligations. Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,028.1 million as of December 31, 2016. We believe that our cash flows from operations, coupled with our existing cash and cash equivalents will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Total cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2016 include approximately $399.0 million available in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt service, debt repayments and acquisitions. While we hold a significant amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries, we have the ability to obtain cash in the United States through distributions from our foreign 61 Table of Contents subsidiaries in order to cover our domestic needs, by utilizing existing credit facilities, or through new bank loans or debt obligations. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt, in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a discussion of our long-term debt. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a discussion of restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and our stock repurchase activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, we enter into various operating leases for buildings and equipment including our mainframe computer system, desktop computers, communications, foundry equipment and service agreements relating to this equipment. In the normal course of business, we provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties initiated by either our subsidiaries or us, as required for transactions including, but not limited to: material purchase commitments; agreements to mitigate collection risk; leases; utilities; and customs guarantees. Our senior revolving credit facility includes $15.0 million of availability for the issuance of letters of credit. There were no letters of credit outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016. We had outstanding guarantees and letters of credit outside of our senior revolving credit facility of $6.7 million at December 31, 2016. As part of securing financing in the normal course of business, we issued guarantees related to our capital lease obligations, equipment financing, lines of credit and real estate mortgages, which totaled approximately $130.7 million as of December 31, 2016. We are also a guarantor of SCI LLCs non-collateralized loan with SMBC, which had a balance of $160.4 million as of December 31, 2016. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe that in the foreseeable future we will not be required to make payments under the standby letters of credit or guarantee arrangements. For our operating leases, we expect to make cash payments and incur similar expenses totaling $148.9 million as payments come due. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these operating leases, letters of credit and guarantee arrangements. Contingencies We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses due to IP infringement, property damage including environmental contamination, personal injury, failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct, or breach of representations and warranties and covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damages, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. 62 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries provide for indemnification of directors, officers and other persons in accordance with limited liability agreements, certificates of incorporation, by-laws, articles of association or similar organizational documents, as the case may be. We maintain directors and officers insurance, which should enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. The Fairchild Agreement provides for indemnification and insurance rights in favor of Fairchilds then current and former directors, officers and employees. Specifically, the Company has agreed that, for no fewer than six years following the Fairchild acquisition, (a) it will indemnify and hold harmless each such indemnitee against losses and expenses (including advancement of attorneys fees and expenses) in connection with any proceeding asserted against the indemnified party in connection with such persons servings as a director, officer, employee or other fiduciary of Fairchild or its subsidiaries prior to the effective time of the acquisition, (b) it will maintain in effect all provisions of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries or any other agreements of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries with any indemnified party regarding elimination of liability, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses in existence on the date of the Fairchild Agreement for acts or omissions occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition and (c) subject to certain qualifications, it will provide to Fairchilds then current directors and officers an insurance and indemnification policy that provides coverage for events occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition that is no less favorable than Fairchilds then-existing policy, or, if insurance coverage that is no less favorable is unavailable, the best available coverage. While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations and under such agreements it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Legal Proceedings and Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also BusinessGovernment Regulation for information on certain environmental matters. Sources and Uses of Cash We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments, research and development, to make capital expenditures, to repurchase our common stock and other Company securities, and to pay debt service, including principal and interest and capital lease payments. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements through cash generated from operations and cash and cash equivalents on hand. We also have the ability to utilize our Revolving Credit Facility. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and divestiture opportunities and proposals on a regular basis. On September 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Fairchild pursuant to the Fairchild Agreement. The purchase price totaled $2,532.2 million and was funded by the borrowings against our Term Loan B Facility 63 Table of Contents and Revolving Credit Facility and with cash on hand. See Business2016 Acquisition Activity, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. During 2015 and 2014, we acquired AXSEM, Aptina and Truesense. See Note 4: Acquisitions and Divestitures in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows, including the impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in demand for our products, competitive pricing pressures, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business; and Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing, and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. Our ability to service our long-term debt, including our 1.00% Notes and Term Loan B Facility, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, as well as to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. We believe that cash flow from operating activities coupled with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and existing credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs, as well as enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements, through at least the next 12 months. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed toward production equipment and capacity expansion. Our capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. During 2016, we paid $210.7 million for capital expenditures, while in 2015 we paid $270.8 million. Our current minimum commitment for 2017 is approximately $81.4 million. The capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. Our capital expenditures have historically been approximately 6% to 7% of annual revenues and we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our business activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. 64 Table of Contents On April 15, 2016, we entered into two new financing arrangements to secure funds for the purchase consideration of Fairchild among certain other items, including a $2.2 billion Term Loan B Facility, with the proceeds deposited into escrow accounts and used to finance the transaction, which occurred on September 19, 2016. On September 30, 2016, we amended the financing arrangements and increased the Term Loan B Facility by $200 million. The associated interest expense related to our Term Loan B Facility has had, and will continue to have, a material impact to our results of operations throughout the term of the Amended Credit Agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we issued $690.0 million of our 1.00% Notes and used a portion of the proceeds to pay down amounts previously drawn on our senior revolving credit facility. We also increased the borrowing capacity of our senior revolving credit facility from $800.0 million to $1.0 billion and reset the five year maturity. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. On December 1, 2014, we announced a capital allocation policy (the Capital Allocation Policy) under which we intend to return to stockholders approximately 80% of free cash flow less repayments of long-term debt, subject to a variety of factors, including our strategic plans, market and economic conditions and the Boards discretion. For the purposes of the Capital Allocation Policy, we define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. We also announced the 2014 Share Repurchase Program pursuant to the Capital Allocation Policy. Under the 2014 Share Repurchase Program, we intend to repurchase approximately $1.0 billion of our common shares over a four year period, subject to the same factors and considerations described above. The 2014 Share Repurchase Program was effective December 1, 2014, and the $300 million 2012 Stock Repurchase Program was terminated on that date. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information with respect to our share repurchase program. Cash Management Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms of new products. Primary Cash Flow Sources Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operating activities were $581.2 million, $470.6 million, and $481.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our cash flows provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased by approximately $110.6 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to the change in working capital during the period. Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows, and each of these components is discussed below. 65 Table of Contents Working Capital Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. In times of escalating demand, our working capital requirements may be affected as we purchase additional manufacturing materials and increase production. Our working capital may also be affected by restructuring programs, which may require us to use cash for severance payments, asset transfers and contract termination costs. In addition, our working capital may be affected by acquisitions and transactions involving our convertible notes and other debt instruments. Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, was $338.1 million as of December 31, 2016 and has fluctuated between $33.9 million and $424.0 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, was $1,366.5 million as of December 31, 2016 and has fluctuated between $611.8 million and $1,366.5 million over the last eight quarter-ends. Working capital as of December 31, 2015 was impacted by ASU 2015-17, which we prospectively adopted and applied to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and subsequent periods. Periods prior to December 31, 2015 have not been adjusted for the adoption of ASU 2015-17. See Note 3: Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our working capital was most significantly impacted by the acquisition of Fairchild and the related financing. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt and Note 9: Earnings Per Share and Equity in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Long-Term Assets and Liabilities Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. We will continue to look for opportunities to make strategic purchases in the future for additional capacity. Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt and deferred taxes, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, generally, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. For additional information, see Note 11: Employee Benefit Plans and Note 15: Income Taxes in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Key Financing and Capital Events Overview For the past several years, we have undertaken various measures to secure liquidity to pursue acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in 66 Table of Contents some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. Certain of these measures continued in 2016. Set forth below is a summary of certain key financing events affecting our capital structure during the last three years. For further discussion of our debt instruments see Note 8: Long-Term Debt and for further discussion on share repurchase program, see Note 9: Earnings Per Share and Equity in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Recent Events 2016 Financing Events On November 17, 2016, we announced that we would be exercising our option to redeem the entire $356.9 million outstanding principal amount of the 2.625% Notes, Series B, on December 20, 2016 pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the 2.625% Notes, Series B. The holders of the 2.625% Notes, Series B, had the right to convert their 2.625% Notes, Series B, into shares of common stock of the Company at a conversion rate of 95.2381 shares per $1,000 principal amount until the close of business on December 19, 2016. We satisfied our conversion obligation with respect to the 2.625% Notes, Series B, tendered for conversion with cash. The final conversion was settled on January 26, 2017, resulting in an aggregate payment of approximately $445.0 million for the redemption and conversion of the 2.625% Notes, Series B. On April 15, 2016, we entered into (1) a $600 million senior revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) and a $2.2 billion term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility), the terms of which are set forth in a Credit Agreement (the New Credit Agreement), dated as of April 15, 2016, by and among the Company, as borrower, the several lenders party thereto, Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent (the Agent), and certain other parties, and (2) a Guarantee and Collateral Agreement (the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement) with certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the Guarantors), pursuant to which the New Credit Agreement was guaranteed by the Guarantors and secured by a pledge of substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Guarantors, including a pledge of the equity interests in certain of the Companys domestic and first-tier foreign subsidiaries, subject to customary exceptions. The obligations under the New Credit Agreement are also secured by mortgages on certain real property assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries. Subject to the terms and conditions of the New Credit Agreement, on April 15, 2016, we borrowed an aggregate of $2.2 billion under the Term Loan B Facility (the Gross Proceeds). On April 15, 2016, the Gross Proceeds, along with certain other amounts funded by the Company, were deposited into escrow accounts pursuant to the terms of an escrow agreement and, upon release from escrow, in accordance with the terms of the escrow agreement, were available primarily to pay, directly or indirectly, the purchase price of the Fairchild Transaction pursuant to the terms of the Fairchild Agreement and certain other items, subject to the terms and conditions of the New Credit Agreement. On September 19, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition and acquired 100% of Fairchild, whereby Fairchild became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company funded the acquisition with the Term Loan B Facility proceeds and Company funded amounts previously deposited into escrow accounts, proceeds from a $200.0 million draw against the Companys Revolving Credit Facility, and existing cash on hand. Proceeds from the Term Loan B Facility were also used to pay for debt issuance costs, transaction fees and expenses. On September 30, 2016, the Company, entered into the first amendment (the First Amendment) to the New Credit Agreement (the Amended Credit Agreement). The First Amendment reduced the applicable margins on 67 Table of Contents Eurocurrency Loans to 2.75% and 3.25% for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan B Facility, respectively and reduced applicable margins ABR Loans to 1.75% and 2.25% for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan B Facility, respectively. Additionally, the First Amendment included the following: (i) the Term Loan B Facility was increased to $2.4 billion; (ii) certain restructuring transactions and intercompany intellectual property transfers are permitted in order to achieve efficient integration of the Company, its subsidiaries and acquired entities; and (iii) certain changes were made to the provisions regarding hedge agreements to allow the Company and each of the guarantors to enter into certain hedge arrangements. The Company used the additional $200.0 million proceeds under the Term Loan B Facility to pay off the Companys $200.0 million outstanding balance under the Companys Revolving Credit Facility. 2015 Financing Events Issuance of 1.00% Notes During the second quarter of 2015, we completed a private unregistered offering for an aggregate principal amount of $690.0 million of our 1.00% Notes. The 1.00% Notes mature on December 1, 2020, unless earlier purchased or converted. We concurrently entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions with certain institutional counterparties. A portion of the proceeds from the offering were used to finance the hedge and warrant transactions associated with the issuance of the 1.00% Notes, to pay down the senior revolving credit facility and to repurchase $70.0 million of our common stock. The issuance was a private placement made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Amended Senior Revolving Credit Facility During the second quarter of 2015, we amended our $800.0 million senior revolving credit facility to, among other things, increase the borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion and reset the five year maturity. We also amended the terms of the related Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The facility includes $15.0 million of availability for the issuance of letters of credit, $15.0 million of availability for swingline loans for short-term borrowings and a foreign currency sublimit of $75.0 million. The facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, stock repurchase, and/or acquisitions. Share Repurchase Program During the year ended December 31, 2015, we purchased approximately 30.4 million shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $347.8 million, exclusive of fees, commissions and other expenses, at a weighted-average execution price of $11.46 per share. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information. 2014 Financing Events Share Repurchase Program During the year ended December 31, 2014, we purchased approximately 13.9 million shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase programs for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $121.0 million, exclusive of fees, commissions and other expenses, at a weighted-average execution price of $8.71 per share. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information. 68 Table of Contents Amounts Drawn on Amended and Restated Senior Revolving Credit Facility During the third quarter of 2014, we drew an incremental amount of approximately $230.0 million to partially fund the purchase of Aptina. The outstanding balance of the facility as of December 31, 2014 was $350.0 million. Debt Guarantees and Related Covenants As of December 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 1.00% Notes and our 2.625% Notes, Series B and with covenants relating to our Term Loan B Facility, Revolving Credit Facility and various other debt agreements. Our 1.00% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of ON Semiconductor and its guarantor subsidiaries. See Note 8: Long-Term Debt in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. We utilize the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our financial statements. Use of Estimates . The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates have been used by management in conjunction with the following: (i) measurement of valuation allowances relating to inventories and deferred tax assets; (ii) estimates of future payouts for customer incentives and allowances, warranties, and restructuring activities; (iii) assumptions surrounding future pension obligations; (iv) fair values of share-based compensation and of financial instruments (including derivative financial instruments); (v) evaluations of uncertain tax positions; (vi) estimates and assumptions used in connection with business combinations; and (vi) future cash flows used to assess and test for impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets, if applicable. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue . We generate revenue from sales of our semiconductor products to OEMs, electronic manufacturing service providers and distributors. We also generate revenue, to a much lesser extent, from manufacturing and design services provided to customers. Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss pass to the customer (generally upon shipment), the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for related sales returns and allowances. For products sold to distributors who are entitled to returns and allowances (generally referred to as ship and credit rights within the semiconductor industry), we recognize the related revenue and cost of revenues depending on if the sale originated through an ON Semiconductor or legacy Fairchild systems and processes. If the sale originated through an ON Semiconductor system and process, revenue is recognized when ON Semiconductor is informed by the distributor that it has resold the products to the end-user. As a result of our inability to reliably estimate up front the effects of the returns and allowances with these distributors for sales 69 Table of Contents originating through an ON Semiconductor system and process, we defer the related revenue and gross margin on sales to these distributors until it is informed by the distributor that the products have been resold to the end-user, at which time the ultimate sales price is known. Legacy Fairchilds systems and processes enable us to estimate up front the effects of returns and allowances provided to the distributors and thereby record the net revenue at the time of sale related to a legacy Fairchild system and process. Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 30 days. For products sold to non-distributors, sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience. Our OEM customers do not have the right to return products, other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Sales to distributors, however, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenues are recognized, and are netted against revenues. We review warranty and related claims activities and records provisions, as necessary. Freight and handling costs are included in cost of revenues and are recognized as period expense when incurred. Taxes assessed by government authorities on revenue-producing transactions, including value-added and excise taxes, are presented on a net basis (excluded from revenues) in the statement of operations. Inventories . We carry our inventories at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or market and record provisions for potential excess and obsolete inventories based upon a regular analysis of inventory on hand compared to historical and projected end-user demand. These provisions can influence our results from operations. For example, when demand falls for a given part, all or a portion of the related inventory that is considered to be in excess of anticipated demand is reserved, impacting our cost of revenues and gross profit. If demand recovers and the parts previously reserved are sold, we will generally recognize a higher than normal margin. However, the majority of product inventory that has been previously reserved is ultimately discarded. Although we do sell some products that have previously been written down, such sales have historically been relatively consistent on a quarterly basis and the related impact on our margins has not been material. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets . We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is first assessed when the undiscounted expected cash flows derived for an asset group are less than its carrying amount. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset group exceeds its fair value and are recognized in operating results. We continually apply our best judgment when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of an impaired asset group. The dynamic economic environment in which we operate and the resulting assumptions used to estimate future cash flows impact the outcome of our impairment tests. In recent years, most of our asset groups that have been impaired consist of assets that were ultimately abandoned, sold or otherwise disposed of due to cost reduction activities and the consolidation of our manufacturing facilities. In some instances, these assets have subsequently been sold for amounts higher than their impaired value with related gains recorded in the restructuring, asset impairment and other, net line item in our consolidated statement of operations and disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. Goodwill . We evaluate our goodwill for potential impairment annually during the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluation of goodwill consists of a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not 70 Table of Contents that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If this qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, no further analysis is required and goodwill is not impaired. Otherwise, we follow a two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test to determine if goodwill is impaired. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Determining the fair value of our reporting units is subjective in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions including projected net cash flows, discount and long-term growth rates. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby the fair value of the reporting unit is derived from the present value of estimated future cash flows. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the businesses are critical to these assessments. The assumptions about future conditions include factors such as future revenues, gross profits, operating expenses, and industry trends. Changes in these estimates based on evolving economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods. We consider other valuation methods, such as the cost approach or market approach, if it is determined that these methods provide a more representative approximation of fair value. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We consider historical rates and current market conditions when determining the discount and growth rates to use in our analysis. We have determined that the divisions within our Company, which are components of our operating segments, constitute reporting units for purposes of allocating and testing goodwill. Our divisions are one level below the operating segments, constituting individual businesses, with our segment management conducting regular reviews of the operating results. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets associated with that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets associate with the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If, during this second step, we determine that the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. Our next annual test for impairment is expected to be performed on the first day of the fourth quarter of 2017; however, identification of a triggering event may result in the need for earlier reassessments of the recoverability of our goodwill and may result in material impairment charges in future periods. Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Related Benefits . We maintain defined benefit pension plans covering certain of our non-U.S. employees. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension costs and estimated withdrawal liabilities are determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates for plan obligations, assumed rates of return on pension plan assets and assumed rates of compensation increase for employees participating in the plans. These assumptions are based upon managements judgment and consultation with actuaries, considering all known trends and uncertainties. Actual results that differ from these assumptions impact the expense recognition and cash funding requirements of our pension plans. As of December 31, 2016, a one percentage point change in the discount rate utilized to determine our continuing foreign pension liabilities and expense for our continuing foreign defined benefit plans would have impacted our results by approximately $4.7 million. Contingencies . We are involved in a variety of legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Based on the available information, we evaluate the relevant range and likelihood of potential outcomes and we record the appropriate liability when the amount is deemed probable and reasonably estimable. 71 Table of Contents Income Taxes . Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which we cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, estimated future taxable income, as well as feasible tax planning strategies for each taxing jurisdiction, are considered. If we determine it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the remaining deferred tax assets will not be realized, the valuation allowance will be increased with a charge to income tax expense. Conversely, if we determine it is more likely than not to be able to utilize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be recorded as a reduction to income tax expense. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that is it more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Our practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. Evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of tax audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in income tax expense in the period in which the change is made, which could have a material impact to our effective tax rate. See Note 15: Income Taxes in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. See also Managements Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Income Tax Provision (Benefit) for additional information. For a further listing and discussion of our accounting policies, see Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 3: Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.