Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Business." Forward-looking statements are often characterized by words such as "believes," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "may," "will," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "should" or similar expressions, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations, forecasts, estimates and assumptions, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements are described below. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information, which speaks only as of the date made, except as may be required by law. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, and you should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. The risk factors described below are not all of the risks we may face. Other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may materially affect our business. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business The manufacturing and other operations required to produce our products are highly dependent on the efficient operation of numerous processes, including processes contingent upon third-party component manufacturers and other service providers, and any disruption in these processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing network includes multiple owned and third-party facilities, which may each produce one or more components necessary for the assembly of a single product. As a result of this interdependence, an operational disruption at a facility may have a disproportionate impact on our ability to produce many of our products. In the event of a disruption at any such facility, we may be unable to effectively source replacement components on acceptable terms from qualified third parties, in which case our ability to produce many of our products could be materially disrupted or delayed. Conversely, some of our facilities are single source facilities that only produce one of our end-products, and a disruption at any such facility would materially delay or cease production of the related product. In the event of any such operational disruption, we may experience difficulty in beginning production of replacement components or products at new facilities or transferring production to other existing facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, for certain manufacturing activities and for the supply of raw materials, we utilize third-party suppliers. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to commit to purchase services based on forecasted product needs, which may be inaccurate, and, in some cases, require longer-term commitments. We are also dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized third-party suppliers for required components and materials for certain of our key technologies. Arranging for replacement manufacturers and suppliers can be time-consuming and costly, and the number of qualified alternative providers can be extremely limited. Our business operations, productivity and customer relations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasted needs proved to be materially incorrect. Generally, our agreements with suppliers of raw materials impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources. Shortages could occur in various essential raw materials, and if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, the costs of our raw materials increase significantly, their quality deteriorates or they give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing efficiency is contingent upon the operations of these interdependent processes and will continue to be an important factor in our future profitability, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency, increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors, or be successful in our manufacturing rationalization plans. For example, public health crises may cause disruption to our domestic and international operations. Any associated worker absenteeism, quarantines and restrictions on certain of our employees ability to perform their jobs, office 16 and factory closures or restrictions, labor shortages, disruptions to ports and other shipping infrastructure, border closures and/or other travel or health-related restrictions could, depending on the magnitude of such effects on our manufacturing activities (or activities of our suppliers, third-party distributors or sub-contractors), cause disruption and delay to our supply chain, manufacturing and product shipments. Such disruption and delays could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to utilize our manufacturing facilities, testing facilities and external manufacturers at expected or minimum purchase obligation levels, or if production capacity increases while revenue does not, the fixed costs and other operating expenses associated with these facilities and arrangements will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, if we need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this could strain our manufacturing and supply chain operations, and negatively impact our working capital. Moreover, if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, we may purchase more or fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If we purchase or commit to purchase inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or such inventory is rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, we may incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. We may be unable to implement certain business strategies and restructuring initiatives and any issue with the pursuit of such strategies and initiatives could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may from time to time determine to implement business strategies and restructuring initiatives in order to remain competitive. Because our strategies and restructuring activities may involve changes to many aspects of our business, including the location of our production facilities and personnel and the potential exit of certain product lines and businesses, our ability to successfully do so depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we are not able to effectively manage or efficiently implement these strategies and/or restructuring initiatives for reasons within or outside of our control, then our business operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, implementation of a business strategy may lead to the disruption of our existing business operations. For example, in light of our goal to achieve net zero emissions by 2040, we may take actions to pursue our goal of generating net-zero emissions that may result in material expenditures that could impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or could disrupt our existing operations. Similarly, the contingent risks associated with transferring our existing operations to an acquirer, as is the case with several transition services being provided in connection with some of our prior divestitures, could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or could disrupt our existing operations, especially if the acquirer is unable to meet its commitments under any transition services agreements or if the acquirer encounters financial difficulty. Furthermore, our increased investment in manufacturing capacity (including increased investment in capacity for SiC-based products and technology), while concurrently divesting other non-strategic operations, may adversely impact our existing operations, require additional management time and effort to implement successfully, and lead to higher than anticipated capital expenditures. In relation to production of SiC-based products and manufacturing at EFK and at our facilities in Hudson, New Hampshire, the Czech Republic and South Korea, we may face challenges or risks related to: increased capital spending and long-term capital expenditure commitments, installing and qualifying new manufacturing equipment, meeting planned process yields, maintaining suitable quality control and educating or providing employees with the requisite know-how to operate the processes at our expanded manufacturing facilities. There are inherent execution risks in expanding production capacity, whether at one of our own factories or at a third party that we utilize, all of which could increase our costs and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, to streamline our operations and for efficiency purposes, we are pursuing a number of actions, including the outsourcing of certain internal business processes and the deployment of enhanced end-to-end digital processes (which, in some cases, include the use of AI) for certain business use cases. Such opportunities for improvement and enhanced productivity bring risks associated with managing change, transition costs, and the potential for reduced productivity or user error, in addition to those risks specific to each new process. The failure to successfully and timely realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions or strategies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, even if we fully execute and implement these activities, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended consequences that could materially adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition or harm to our competitive position. To the extent that we do not achieve the profitability enhancement or other anticipated benefits of strategy or restructuring initiatives, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to identify and make the substantial research and development investments or develop new products required to satisfy customer demands, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to 17 market enhanced technologies and products. The development of new products is complex and time-consuming, often requiring significant capital investment and lead time for development and testing. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive. In addition, the lengthy development cycle for certain of our products could limit our ability to adapt quickly to changes affecting the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users, and we may be unable to develop innovative responses to our customers and end-users evolving needs on the timelines they require or at all. There can be no assurance that we will win competitive bid selection processes, known as "design wins," for new products. In addition, design wins do not guarantee that we will make customer sales or generate sufficient revenue to recover design and development investments, realize a return on the capital expended or achieve expected gross margins, as expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. To the extent that we underinvest in our research and development efforts, fail to recognize the need for innovation with respect to our products, or our investments and capital expenditures in research and development do not lead to sales of new products, we may be unable to bring to market technologies and products attractive to customers, and so our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, products that are commercially viable may not have an immediate impact on our revenue or contribute to our operating results in a meaningful way until at least a few years after they are introduced into the market. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technologies, innovation, short product life cycles, evolving regulatory and industry standards and certifications, changing customer needs, wide fluctuations in supply and demand and frequent new product introductions. Products are often replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes and, as demand for older technology falls, the price at which such products can be sold drops. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our production efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will no longer be able to make a profit from the sale of older products. In certain limited cases, we may not be able to cease production of older products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons and, as a result, may be required to bear a loss on such products for a sustained period of time. If reductions in our production costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for products we sell, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our new product development efforts fail to align with the needs of our customers, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and has experienced significant consolidation, and if we are unable to compete effectively or identify attractive opportunities for consolidation, it could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor industry depends on elements both within and outside of our control. We face significant competition within each of our product lines from major global semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our competitive position could be weakened relative to our peers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success depends on many factors, including the development of new technologies and effective commercialization and customer acceptance of our products, and our ability to increase our position in current markets, expand into adjacent and new markets, and optimize operational performance. Products or technologies developed by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We also may be unable to market and sell our products if they are not competitive on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, features, system compatibility, ease of use, customized design, innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability. If we fail to compete effectively on developing strategic relationships with customers and customer sales and technical support, our sales and revenue may be materially adversely affected. Competitive pressures may limit our ability to raise prices, and any inability to maintain revenue or raise prices to offset increases in costs could have a significant adverse effect on our gross margin. Our gross margins vary due to a variety of factors. Reduced sales and lower gross margins would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The semiconductor industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant consolidation among companies and vertical integration among customers. Larger competitors resulting from consolidations may have certain advantages over us, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage if we fail to identify attractive opportunities to acquire companies to expand our business. Consolidation among competitors and integration among customers could erode our market share, impair our capacity to compete and require us to restructure operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, some of our competitors may receive governmental subsidies or other incentives that give them a competitive advantage over us. For example, the United States and the European Union have enacted legislation to provide funding and incentives for semiconductor research, development, and manufacturing in their respective regions. If we are unable to access such funding or incentives, or if our competitors receive more funding or incentives than we do, we may be at a disadvantage in developing and producing new or improved products or technologies, which could adversely affect our market share, revenue 18 and profitability. Because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in the automotive and industrial end-markets, including revenue pursuant to our long-term supply agreements, a downturn or lower sales to customers in either end-market could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive industry and the industrial sector and the demand for our products depends in part on the market conditions in these end-markets. Sales into the automotive and industrial end-markets represented approximately 55% and 25% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2024. The automotive industry is cyclical and the industrial sector tends to thrive during a time of economic expansion, and, as a result, our customers in each end-market are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, inflationary pressure, increases in interest rates, disruptive innovation and end-market preferences, which can adversely affect sales of our products and, correspondingly, our results of operations. Changes in demand in these end-markets or changes that have the potential to disrupt sales activities to customers in these end-markets, can significantly impact our operating results. Additionally, the quantity and price of our products sold to customers in each end-market could decline despite continued growth in such end-markets. Lower sales to customers in either end-market may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, to the extent we have long-term supply agreements with our customers in multiple end-markets which includes fixed pricing, we could be subject to fluctuating manufacturing costs that could negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, under our long-term supply agreements, we could incur certain obligations if we are not able to fulfill our commitments. Furthermore, certain customers, from time to time, have sought and may seek to amend or cancel the delivery or other terms of their long-term supply agreements with us. When any such contractual amendments are made, the timing, pricing or amount of products delivered under such long-term supply agreements may be modified in circumstances where we believe it advances the long-term customer relationship. Such an event could have an impact on our results of operations. Our operating results depend, in part, on the performance of independent distributors. A portion of our sales occurs through global and regional distributors that are not under our control. We rely on distributors to grow and develop their customer base and anticipate customer needs, and any lack of such actions by our distributors may adversely affect our results of operations. These independent distributors also generally represent product lines offered by several companies and are not subject to any minimum sales requirements or obligation to market our products to their customers. In turn, distributors could reduce their sales efforts for our products or choose to terminate their representation of us. In addition, in the event a distributor were to face financial difficulty, experience significant operational disruptions or terminate its operations, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a significant distributor terminates its operations or were to merge with another distributor, we may be more reliant and dependent on the distribution network of our remaining distributors. Additionally, we rely on our distributors to provide accurate and timely sales reports in order for us to be able to generate financial reports that accurately represent distributor sales of our products during any given period. Any inaccuracies or untimely reports could adversely affect our ability to produce accurate and timely financial reports and recognize revenue. Changes in, and the regulatory implementation of, tariffs or other government trade policies or political conditions could reduce demand for our products, limit our ability to sell our products to certain customers or our ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, which may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The imposition of or increase in tariffs, export controls and other trade restrictions as a result of international trade disputes or changes in trade policies or political conditions may adversely affect our sales and profitability. For example, a significant trade disruption, additional tariffs, trade protection measures, export or import regulations or other restrictions imposed related to our business and the related geopolitical uncertainty between the United States, China, Canada, Mexico and other countries or any retaliatory actions from such governments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. More specifically, our assembly and test operations facility located in Leshan, China, which is owned by Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited, a joint venture company in which we own 80% of the outstanding equity interests, may be subjected to increased costs or additional trade restrictions stemming from the geopolitical tension between the United States and China. The U.S. Department of Commerce could in the future add additional Chinese companies to its restricted entity list or unverified list or take other actions that could expand licensing requirements or otherwise impact the market for our products and our revenue. These rules may require us to apply for and obtain additional export licenses to supply certain of our products to customers in China, and there is no assurance that we will be issued licenses that we apply for on a timely basis or at all. Additional tariffs, export controls or other trade restrictions between the two countries could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, tariffs on components that we import from certain nations that have imposed, or may in the future impose, tariffs may adversely affect our profitability unless we are able to exclude such components from the tariffs or we raise prices for our products, which may result in our products becoming less attractive relative to products offered by our competitors. To the extent that our sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, our business and results of 19 operations may be materially adversely affected. Our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous additional United States and foreign laws and regulations related to import and export matters. For example, licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries under applicable export control regulations, including the provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. A determination by the United States government or any foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations can result in penalties, including fines, administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities, seizure of products, or, in the extreme case, denial of export privileges or suspension or debarment from government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, business and results of operations. Our power technologies used for AI may not capture market share as expected, and issues related to the responsible use of AI may adversely affect our business. Our extensive range of power technologies are used to help power AI and related data centers and we expect this part of our business to grow. The emergence of big data and new tools such as machine learning and AI that capitalize on the availability of large data sets is leading semiconductor manufacturers to pursue new products and approaches, and there is an intense competition to capture market share in this emerging market. We may not be able to develop and offer the technology solutions that our AI-focused customers demand in a timely manner or effectively, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our failure to commercialize new technologies that can power AI and data centers in a timely manner or at all could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which could adversely affect our financial results. As with many new emerging technologies, AI presents risks and challenges and increasing legal, social and ethical concerns relating to its responsible use that could affect the adoption of AI. Third-party misuse of AI applications, models, or solutions, or ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by our customers could cause harm to individuals or society and impair the publics acceptance of AI, which would in turn adversely affect our business. We may be unable to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel, both in the United States and internationally. In the semiconductor industry, the competition for qualified personnel, particularly experienced design engineers and other technical employees, is intense. Furthermore, we have operations in many parts of the world that are currently experiencing a tight labor market for skilled employees. Additionally, we have entered into employment agreements with certain senior executives, but we do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. Many of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work for a competitor. Specific elements of our compensation programs may not be competitive with those of our competitors, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel or recruit the key personnel we require. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and other senior management may be required to divert attention from other aspects of our business. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and on our business. Warranty claims, product liability claims, product recalls, and the failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our contracts, could harm our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. As suppliers become more integrally involved in electrical design, OEMs are increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are looking to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results in a recall, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Even if our products meet standard specifications, our customers may attempt to use our products in applications for which our products were not designed or in customer products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer satisfaction issues, which may harm our reputation. 20 Since a defect or failure in our products could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and claims for consequential damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. In certain instances, we attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions or other contractual provisions, but there is no assurance that such limitations will be effective. To the extent we are liable for damages in excess of the revenue and profits received from the products involved, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have sizeable sales and operations in the Asia/Pacific region and Europe, and a significant amount of this business is transacted in currency other than U.S. dollars. In addition, while a significant percentage of our cash is generated outside the United States, many of our liabilities, including our outstanding indebtedness, and certain other cash payments, such as share repurchases, are payable in the United States in U.S. dollars. As a result, currency fluctuations and changes in foreign exchange regulations can have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, repatriation of funds held outside the United States could have adverse tax consequences and could be subject to delay due to required local country approvals or local obligations. Foreign exchange regulations may also limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the United States, our financial flexibility may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make interest and principal payments due under our various debt obligations. Restrictions on repatriation or the inability to use cash held abroad to fund our operations in the United States may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Intellectual Property If our technologies are subject to claims of infringement on the IP rights of others, efforts to address such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may from time to time be subject to claims that we may be infringing the IP rights of others. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such IP rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for IP we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring such technologies. Further, we may be subject to IP litigation, which could cause us to incur significant expense, materially adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technologies and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome or pursuant to the terms of a settlement of any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages or settlement costs; indemnify customers or distributors; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of certain processes; or obtain licenses, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to continue the use, development and/or sale of the allegedly infringing technologies. The outcome of IP litigation is inherently uncertain and, if not resolved in our favor, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect the IP we have developed or licensed, our competitive position, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The enforceability of our patents, trademarks, copyrights, software licenses and other IP is uncertain in certain circumstances. Effective IP protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and internationally. The various laws and regulations governing our registered and unregistered IP assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies are subject to legislative and regulatory change and interpretation by courts. With respect to our IP generally, we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of United States or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; or that we will be able to successfully enforce our IP rights in the United States or foreign countries. Infringement or misappropriation of our IP could result in lost market and revenue opportunities, and if we are unable to enforce and protect our IP it could have an adverse impact on our competitive position and business. Further, our assertion of IP rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged IP rights of its own against us, which may materially and 21 adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to IP arising out of our research. Should we be unable to protect our IP, competitors may develop products or technologies that duplicate our products or technologies, benefit financially from innovations for which we bore the costs of development and undercut the sales and marketing of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Technology and Data Privacy Disruptions or breaches of our information technology systems could irreparably damage our reputation and our business, expose us to liability and materially adversely affect our results of operations. We routinely collect and store sensitive data, including confidential and other proprietary information about our business and our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience disruptions, failures or breaches of our information technology environment, such as those caused by computer viruses, illegal hacking, criminal fraud or impersonation, acts of vandalism or terrorism or employee error. Our cybersecurity measures and/or those of our third-party service providers and/or customers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Although we are not aware of any cybersecurity incidents that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our business as of the year ended December 31, 2024, we continue to devote resources to reduce the risk of or alleviate cybersecurity breaches and vulnerabilities and those costs could be significant. Although we maintain a cybersecurity program to manage cybersecurity risks, our efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may materially impede our sales, manufacturing operations, distribution or other critical functions. Any compromise of our information security could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information or that of other parties with which we do business, an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized transfer of cash or other of our assets, the unauthorized release of customer or employee data or a violation of privacy or other laws. In addition, computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products, or that otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities, and any such attack, if successful, could expose us to liability to customer claims. Further, AI capabilities may be used to identify vulnerabilities and craft increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. Any of the foregoing could irreparably damage our reputation and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We maintain cyber risk insurance, although an insufficiency of insurance coverage could adversely affect our cash flows and overall profitability. Furthermore, our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations related to cybersecurity may be costly and any failure to comply could result in investigations, proceedings, investor lawsuits and reputational damage. We are subject to governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection. The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We collect Personally Identifiable Information ("PII") and other data as part of our business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union and other relevant jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of PII and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are currently more restrictive than those in the United States. Additionally, within the United States, different states have enacted various regulations governing the treatment of PII. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations, could result in additional cost and liability to Company officials or us, including substantial monetary fines, and could damage our reputation, inhibit sales and adversely affect our business. Our extensive reliance on, and investments in, information technology systems, including reliance on third-party service providers, could have a materially adverse impact on our business. We rely extensively on information technology systems and related personnel to collect, use, retain, manage, transmit, and protect transactions and data. For these information technology systems, applications, and processes to operate effectively, we or our service providers must maintain and update them. Delays in the maintenance, updates, upgrading, or patching of these systems, applications or processes, as well as the actions taken to maintain, update, upgrade and patch, could impair their effectiveness or expose us to security risks. Some of these systems are managed or provided by third-party service providers, including certain cloud platform providers. Failure by these third-party service providers to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to us, or our failure to 22 adequately monitor their performance, could result in our inability to achieve expected efficiencies and result in additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved and despite the availability of contractual remedies against these providers, such errors can also lead to business disruption, systems performance degradation, processing inefficiencies or other systems disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, fines or penalties, remediation costs, damage to our reputation or have a negative impact on employee morale, all of which can materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems, infrastructure and personnel, in certain cases with the assistance of strategic partners and other third-party service providers. These investments involve replacing existing systems, some of which are older, legacy systems that are less flexible and efficient, with successor systems; outsourcing certain technology and business processes to third-party service providers; making changes to existing systems; maintaining or enhancing legacy systems that are not currently being replaced; designing or cost effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality; or testing the use and incorporation of AI, including generative AI. These efforts could result in significant potential risks, including failure of the systems to operate as designed, unexpected impacts on related systems or processes, potential loss or corruption of data, failures in security processes and internal controls, cost overruns, implementation delays or errors, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. Any system implementation and transition difficulty may result in operational challenges, security failures, reputational harm, and increased costs that could adversely affect our business operations, our relationships with our customers, and results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Regulation Environmental and health and safety liabilities and expenditures could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry continues to be subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. In addition, our operations and those of our suppliers are further governed by regulations focused on conflict minerals and restrictions on other materials, as well as laws or regulations governing the operation of our facilities, sale and distribution of our products, and real property. We also have operations subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other requirements, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. We have indemnities from third parties for certain environmental and health and safety liabilities for periods prior to our operations at some of our current and past sites, and we have also purchased environmental insurance to cover certain claims related to historical contamination and future releases of hazardous substances. However, we cannot assure you that such indemnification arrangements and insurance will cover any or all of our material environmental costs. In addition, the nature of our operations exposes us to the continuing risk of environmental and health and safety liabilities including: changes in United States and international environmental or health and safety laws, regulations or policies, including, but not limited to, future laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns and conflict minerals; the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements and insurance policies relating to environmental liabilities; the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any future environmental claims, including the cost of clean-up of currently unknown environmental conditions; or the cost of fines, penalties or other legal liability, should we fail to comply with environmental or health and safety laws or regulations. We incur costs associated with complying with evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and related disclosure obligations such as the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could subject us to significant costs and liabilities. To the extent that we face unforeseen environmental or health and safety compliance costs or remediation expenses or liabilities that are not covered by indemnities or insurance, we may bear the full effect of such costs, expenses and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could result in penalties that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. If 23 we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by the United States or foreign authorities could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries and are, therefore, subject to complex income tax and transfer pricing regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Changes to, or interpretations of, tax legislation or regulations could significantly increase our effective tax rate or affect our tax obligations and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operating activities. In addition, other factors or events, such as changes to our operating structure, strategy and investment decisions, could also increase our future effective tax rate or affect our tax obligations and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operating activities. Changes in tax laws from international and domestic initiatives, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's base erosion and profit shifting project and potential U.S. tax reforms, could adversely affect our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. Most of our income is taxable in the United States with a significant portion qualifying for preferential treatment as foreign-derived intangible income (FDII). Beginning in 2026, the effective rate for FDII increases from 13% to 16%. Additionally, if U.S. rates increase and/or the FDII deduction is eliminated or reduced, our provision for income taxes, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely (potentially materially) affected. Furthermore, if our customers move manufacturing operations to the United States, our FDII deduction may be reduced. These types of initiatives and changes, if adopted or enacted, may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the impact of any new tax legislation may differ from our estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made and future regulatory guidance. Social and environmental responsibility regulations, policies and provisions, as well as customer and investor demands, may make our supply chain more complex and may adversely affect our relationships with customers and investors. With the increasing focus on corporate social and environmental responsibility in the semiconductor industry, a number of our customers have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include social and environmental responsibility provisions or requirements that their suppliers should comply with, or they may seek to include such provisions or requirements in their procurement terms and conditions. In addition, an increasing number of OEMs are seeking to source products that do not contain minerals sourced from areas where proceeds from the sale of such minerals are likely to be used to fund armed conflicts, such as in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, we may face difficulties in satisfying these customers demands, which may harm our sales and operating results. Many investors also expect companies to disclose corporate social and environmental policies, practices and metrics under voluntary disclosure standards and frameworks. We periodically communicate our strategies, goals and targets related to our corporate social and environmental policies and programs. These strategies, goals and targets, and their underlying assumptions and projections, reflect our current plans and aspirations, but we may be unable to achieve them. It is also possible that our investors might not be satisfied with our policies, programs, goals, performance and related disclosures, or the speed of their adoption, implementation and measurable success, or that we have adopted such policies, programs and commitments at all. In addition, unfavorable ratings or assessment of our corporate social and environmental policies and programs, including our compliance with certain voluntary disclosure standards and frameworks, may lead to negative investor sentiment toward us, which could have a negative impact on our stock price and our access to and cost of capital. Furthermore, in light of our goal to achieve net zero emissions by 2040, future customer or investor expectations and regulatory requirements, we may take actions to pursue our goal of generating net-zero emissions or to alter our processes that may result in material expenditures that could impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or disrupt our existing operations. 24 Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Indebtedness Our debt could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2024, we had $3,379.9 million of outstanding principal relating to our indebtedness. We may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future to repay or refinance other outstanding debt, to make acquisitions or for other purposes, and if we incur additional debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $1.1 billion available for future borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to our potential and current investors, including impacting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. To the extent that we continue to maintain or expand our significant indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The inability to meet our obligations under our Credit Agreement could materially and adversely affect us by, among other things, limiting our ability to conduct our operations and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by a lien on substantially all of the assets of the guarantors under the Credit Agreement, including a pledge of the equity interests in certain of our domestic and first-tier foreign subsidiaries. As a result, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could take possession of and foreclose on the pledged collateral securing the indebtedness, in which case we would be at risk of losing the related collateral, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayment if the outstanding amounts drawn thereunder exceed the total commitments, which may result in prepaying outstanding amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility rather than using funds for other business purposes. Our financing structure, and any inability to meet our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including, among other things, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes and could reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The agreements relating to our indebtedness, including the Credit Agreement and the 3.875% Notes, may restrict our ability to operate our business, and as a result may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement and the 3.875% Notes, contain, and any future debt agreements may include, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictive covenants may significantly limit our ability to: incur additional debt; incur liens; make certain investments or acquisitions; redeem, or otherwise perform our obligations under the terms of, our 3.875% Notes; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other "change of control" transactions; make distributions to our stockholders; engage in restructuring activities; engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; and issue or repurchase stock or other securities. Such agreements may also require us to satisfy other requirements, including maintaining certain financial ratios and condition tests. Our ability to meet these requirements can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. To the extent we fail to meet any such requirements and are in default under our debt obligations, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, and any inability to repay our debt when required would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to make required payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash to satisfy our debt obligations as they come due, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling additional assets, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that, if we were required to repurchase any of our debt securities upon a change of control or other specified event, our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our collateralized debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which could materially negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A default under our committed credit facilities, including our Credit Agreement, could also limit our ability to make further 25 borrowings under those facilities, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we are not able to borrow or refinance debt obligations, we may have to issue additional shares of our common stock, which would have a dilutive effect to the stockholders immediately prior to such issuance. An event of default under any agreement relating to our outstanding indebtedness could cross default other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there were an event of default under certain of our agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately, which default or acceleration of debt could cross default other indebtedness. Any such cross default would put immediate pressure on our liquidity and financial condition and would amplify the risks described above with regards to being unable to repay our indebtedness when due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default and, as described above, any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our operating subsidiaries, which may have no independent obligation to repay our debt, are not able to make cash available to us for such repayment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay amounts due on such indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal, contractual, governmental, or regulatory restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions or payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness and, as described above, any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations under our variable rate indebtedness could increase significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Borrowings under certain of our facilities from time to time, including under our Credit Agreement, are at variable rates of interest and as a result expose us to interest rate risk. Interest rates increased throughout 2022 and 2023. While interest rates have stabilized during 2024, if interest rates increase or remain at elevated levels, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. To the extent the risk materializes and is not fully mitigated, the resulting increase in interest expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, significant changes in our credit rating, disruptions in the global financial markets, including bank failures, or incurrence of new or refinancing of existing indebtedness at higher interest rates could have a material and adverse effect on our access to and cost of capital for future financings, and financial condition. The timing of the cash payments to service the 0% Notes, the 0.50% Notes and the 3.875% Notes is not entirely in our control and may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy these obligations in a timely manner. As of December 31, 2024, we had outstanding approximately $804.9 million aggregate principal amount of our 0% Notes, $1,500.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.50% Notes and $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.875% Notes (collectively, the "Outstanding Notes"). Holders of the Outstanding Notes have certain rights that would require us to make repurchases prior to the stated maturity for all or a portion of the amounts due in certain circumstances. For example, holders of the 3.875% Notes have the right to require us to repurchase all of their 3.875% Notes upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events accompanied by certain ratings events (as described in the indenture governing the 3.875% Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, accrued prior to, but not including, the repurchase date. Servicing the Outstanding Notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under such notes. Our ability to make cash payments in connection with conversions of the 0% Notes or the 0.50% Notes, repurchase any of the Outstanding Notes in the case of an applicable repurchase-triggering event under the respective indentures or repay such notes at maturity will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. In certain circumstances, a takeover of our Company and similar triggering events could also trigger an option of the holders of 26 the 0% Notes, the 0.50% Notes and the 3.875% Notes to require us to repurchase such notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our Company that would otherwise be beneficial to the holders of the 0% Notes, the 0.50% Notes, the 3.875% Notes and our common stock, which could materially decrease the value of such notes and of our common stock. The terms of the Credit Agreement and the terms of the 3.875% Notes limit the amount of future indebtedness secured by liens that we may incur. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. Our decision to use our cash for other purposes, such as to make acquisitions or to repurchase our common stock, could also intensify these risks. Note hedge and warrant transactions we have entered into may materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Concurrently with the issuances of the 0% Notes and the 0.50% Notes, respectively, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. The convertible note hedges are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the respective series of notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes of such series, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties with respect to the 0% Notes and the 0.50% Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds $74.34, with respect to the 0% Notes and $156.78 with respect to the 0.50% Notes. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of the convertible note hedges and warrant transactions for the 0% Notes and the 0.50% Notes, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates have purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of such notes. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Counterparty risk with respect to the note hedge transactions, if realized, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the note hedge transactions. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. To the extent the option counterparties do not honor their contractual commitments with us pursuant to the note hedge transactions, we could face a material increase in our exposure to potential dilution upon any conversion of the 0% Notes and/or the 0.50% Notes and/or cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted 0% Notes and/or the 0.50% Notes, as the case may be. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer adverse tax consequences with respect to our common stock. Any such adverse tax consequences or increased cash payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, which could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions: establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that our Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval and that could be issued with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt; and require the approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock to amend certain of these provisions in our certificate of incorporation or by-laws. 27 Although we believe these provisions make a higher third-party bid more likely by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if an initial offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Any delay or prevention of an acquisition of us that would have been beneficial to our stockholders could materially decrease the value of our common stock. The amount and frequency of our share repurchases are affected by a number of factors and may fluctuate. Although we have adopted a share repurchase program, we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares under our share repurchase program or at all. The amount, timing, and purchases under our share repurchase program, if any, are influenced by many factors and may fluctuate based on our operating results, cash flows, and priorities for the use of cash and because of changes in tax laws, and the market price of our common stock. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. General Risk Factors We may be unable to successfully make or integrate strategic acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, investments and other alliances including the formation of joint ventures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful acquisitions and alliances in our industry require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts, often in markets or regions in which we have less experience. Risks related to successful integration of an acquisition include, but are not limited to: (1) the ability to integrate information technology and other systems; (2) issues not discovered in our due diligence; (3) customers responding by changing their existing business relationships with us or the acquired company; (4) diversion of managements attention from our day to day operations; and (5) loss of key employees post-integration. In addition, we may incur unexpected costs or taxes resulting from the acquisition or integration of the newly acquired business. Missteps or delays in integrating our acquisitions, which could be caused by factors outside of our control, or our failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions on the timeline we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Depending on the level of our ownership interest in and the extent to which we can exercise control over the acquired business, we may be required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and SEC rules and regulations to consolidate newly acquired businesses into our consolidated financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements or statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, or the acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, any of which could materially impair our ability to properly integrate such businesses into our consolidated financial statements on a timely basis. Any revisions to, inaccuracies in or restatements of our consolidated financial statements due to accounting for our acquisitions could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. We have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record, a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our financial position and results of operations. Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions, as well as general macroeconomic trends and impacts, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Historically, worldwide semiconductor industry sales have tracked the impacts of adverse economic conditions, specifically financial crises, subsequent recoveries and persistent economic uncertainty. Recent global economic slowdowns could continue and potentially result in certain economies dipping into economic recessions, including in the United States. We have in the past and could in the future experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions; the onset of an economic recession and volatile or uncertain economic conditions can adversely impact our sales and profitability and make it difficult for us and our competitors to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Furthermore, inflationary pressure and increases in interest rates have and may continue to increase our costs, which 28 could negatively impact revenue, earnings and demand for our products. In addition to general economic conditions, impacts of other macroeconomic events, such as public health crises, geopolitical tensions or conflicts and risks, such as the ongoing conflict in the Middle East and military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, climate change and other severe weather and natural disasters, banking failures and uncertainties in global financial markets, could materially adversely impact our operations by causing disruptions in the geographies in which we and our suppliers, third party distributors and sub-contractors operate. If any of these events impact our supply chain, manufacturing and product shipments could be delayed, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, disruption of transportation and distribution systems could result in reduced operational efficiency and customer service interruption. Such events can negatively impact revenue and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow. We have been and may be subject to or involved in litigation or threatened litigation, the outcome of which may be difficult to predict, and which may be costly to defend, divert management attention, require us to pay damages, or restrict the operation of our business. From time to time, we have been and may be subject to disputes and litigation, with and without merit, that may be costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. Even if we are able to estimate losses related to these actions, the ultimate amount of loss may be materially higher than our estimates. Any resolution of litigation, or threatened litigation, could involve the payment of damages or expenses by us, which may be significant or involve an agreement with terms that restrict the operation of our business. Even if any future lawsuits are not resolved against us, the costs of defending such lawsuits may be significant. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities. Allegations made in the course of legal proceedings may also harm our reputation, regardless of whether there is merit to such claims. We can provide no assurance that additional litigation will not be filed against us in the future. See Note 13: Commitments and Contingencies Legal Matters in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information on our legal proceedings. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Various jurisdictions have developed or are developing climate change-based laws or regulations that could cause us to incur additional direct costs for compliance, as well as indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers, or both incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These legal and regulatory requirements, as well as heightened investor expectations, on corporate environmental and social responsibility practices and disclosure are subject to change, can be unpredictable and may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, given the complexity of our supply chain and our significant outsourced manufacturing. If we are unable to comply, or are unable to cause our suppliers to comply, with such policies or provisions or meet the requirements of our customers and investors, a customer may stop purchasing products from us or an investor may sell their shares, or parties may take legal action against us, which could harm our reputation, revenue and results of operations. Any future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or others in our industry could harm our reputation. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of sensitive data, including confidential and other proprietary information about our business and our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners, is important to our operations and business strategy. As a result, cybersecurity and data protection are key components of our long-term strategy. 29 We use various processes to inform our assessment, identification and management of risk from cybersecurity threats. Key areas of our cybersecurity risk management processes and strategy currently include: Cross-Functional Collaboration and Coordination. Our Enterprise Cybersecurity Services (ECS) team, led by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), has first line responsibility for our cybersecurity risk management processes. The ECS team works in partnership with other internal teams to coordinate efforts, priorities and oversight. These include: our Cybersecurity Executive Council (the Council), which is composed of key leaders from stakeholder groups throughout the Company, including the CISO and certain members of senior management; our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team, which is responsible for evaluating and assessing overall enterprise risk, including cybersecurity risk, and advising senior management and the Board regarding our overall risk profile and priorities as they evolve; our Internal Audit Department (IAD), which monitors certain IT systems controls that are integrated into our larger Sarbanes-Oxley control environment; and our Cyber Incident Response Team (CIRT), a cross-functional team of subject matter experts from across the Company and certain third-party support providers that we have on retainer. Ongoing Evaluation and Assessment of Systems and Processes. We update our information security management system from time to time as appropriate and we employ standards and frameworks as we deem necessary to assist us in monitoring compliance with regulatory, industry and evolving data privacy requirements. In addition to periodic in-depth evaluations of our systems and processes, we monitor our IT systems and processes on an ongoing basis with the goal of identifying and remediating real and potential threats as they arise. We adjust our systems, procedures and policies regularly as we deem necessary in response to identified threats and risks. Security Awareness Program to Train and Test Personnel. We sponsor a multi-faceted security awareness program that includes mandatory trainings for our personnel on data protection and malware detection, policy and process awareness, periodic phishing simulations and other kinds of preparedness testing. Cyber Incident Response Plan. We maintain a cross-functional cyber incident response plan with defined roles, responsibilities and reporting protocols. This plan, which we evaluate and test on a regular basis, focuses on responding to and recovering from any significant breach as well as mitigating any impact to our business. Generally, when a breach or suspected breach is identified, the ECS team would escalate the issue to the Council for initial analysis and guidance. In the event of a significant breach, the CIRT, overseen by the Council, would typically be tasked with preparing an initial response. The Council (in consultation with, among others, the CIRT) would be responsible for determining whether a particular incident (alone or in combination with other factors) triggers any reporting or notification responsibilities. Regular Evaluation of Initiatives, Results and Priorities. The ECS team, in consultation with the Council and other members of senior management, updates its strategy at least annually to account for changes in our business strategy, legal and regulatory developments across our geographic footprint, the results of our recent ECS initiatives, and further developments in the cybersecurity threat landscape. In addition, we periodically engage a third-party provider to conduct an external assessment of our security program. The results of this assessment, which are reported to the Audit Committee (and the Board, as appropriate), assist us in determining whether any further changes to our existing policies and practices are warranted. We expect that our cybersecurity risk management processes and strategy will continue to evolve as the cybersecurity threat landscape evolves. As indicated above, we engage third-party providers to assist us with our cybersecurity risk management and strategy. Some of these providers provide us with ongoing assistance (such as threat monitoring, mitigation strategies, updates on emerging trends and developments and policy guidance) while we engage others to provide targeted assistance (such as security and forensic expertise) as needed. Prior to exchanging any sensitive data or integrating with any key third-party provider, we assess their security fitness against our risk posture and request changes as we deem necessary. As of December 31, 2024, we have not identified any risks from cybersecurity threats (including any previous cybersecurity incidents) that have materially affected the Company, our business strategy, our results of operations or our financial condition. For a discussion of risks from cybersecurity threats that could be reasonably likely to materially affect us, please see our Risk Factors discussion under the heading, Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Technology and Data Privacy included 30 elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Governance Consistent with our overall risk management governance structure, management is responsible for the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risk while our Board and its Audit Committee play an active, ongoing oversight role. Board Oversight. Our Board has delegated to its Audit Committee specific, first-line responsibility for overseeing major cybersecurity risk exposures in addition to our broader ERM program. Specifically, under its charter, the Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing our cybersecurity posture, risk assessment, strategy and mitigation and for making recommendations to address and resolve any breaches or issues related to the protection or privacy of our data. Management (including our Chief Information Officer (CIO) and our CISO) reports at least quarterly to the Audit Committee on information security and data privacy and protection. These presentations address a wide range of topics, including trends in cyber threats and the status of initiatives intended to bolster our security systems and the cyber readiness of our personnel. The Audit Committee chair reports to the full Board on these risk discussions as appropriate. At least annually, the Board meets with members of our ERM team to review and discuss our ERM program, including areas of material risk and how these risks, which may include cybersecurity risk, are being managed and reported to the Board and its committees. Managements Role. Our ECS team is composed of several support teams that address and respond to cyber risk, including cyber risks related to security architecture and engineering, identity and access management and security operations. The ECS team oversees compliance with our cybersecurity framework within the organization and facilitates cybersecurity risk management activities throughout the organization. The ECS team also assists with the review and approval of policies, completes benchmarking against applicable standards, maintains a cyber risk register and oversees the security awareness program. Our ECS team is led by our CISO. Our CISO reports to our CIO who, in turn, reports to our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Our CISO has over 20 years of experience in leading global security functions and strategies. Collectively, the other members of our ECS team have decades of relevant education and experience and maintain a wide range of industry certifications. We invest in regular, ongoing cybersecurity training for our ECS team. As noted previously, our CISO is a member of the Council, which meets at least quarterly to provide operational direction to the ECS team considering the evolving risk landscape. The ECS team and the Council, through ongoing communication, monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents. The CISO, in consultation with the Council and other members of senior management, reports such threats and incidents to the Audit Committee, as appropriate. These reports may be included in, or in addition to, his regular quarterly reports to the Audit Committee. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters, as well as certain design center and research and development operations, are located in approximately 200,000 square feet of building space on property that we lease in Scottsdale, Arizona. We also own and lease properties around the world for use as sales offices, design centers, research and development labs, warehouses, logistic centers, trading offices and manufacturing support. The size and location of these properties, which are used by all of our reportable segments, change from time to time based on business requirements. We operate distribution centers, which are leased or contracted through a third-party, in locations throughout Asia, Europe and the Americas. See "Business Resources" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information on properties used in our manufacturing operations. While these facilities are primarily used in manufacturing operations, they also include office, utility, laboratory, warehouse and unused space. Additionally, we own and lease research and development facilities located in Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our joint venture in Leshan, China also owns manufacturing, warehouse, laboratory, office and other unused space. Certain of our properties are subject to encumbrances such as mortgages and liens. See Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information. In addition, due to local law restrictions, the land upon which our facilities are located in certain foreign locations is subject to varying long-term leases. See "Business Resources" and "Business Government Regulation" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details on our properties and environmental regulation. 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company has elected to use a $1 million threshold for disclosing certain proceedings arising under federal, state or local environmental laws when a governmental authority is a party. The Company believes proceedings under this threshold are not material to its business and financial condition. See "Legal Matters" under Note 13: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of legal proceedings and related matters. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded under the symbol "ON" on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The stock price details can be obtained from the Nasdaq website at www.nasdaq.com. As of February 5, 2025, there were approximately 164 holders of record of our common stock and 421,421,127 shares of common stock outstanding. Holders of record are defined as those stockholders whose shares are registered in their names in our stock records and do not include beneficial owners of common stock whose shares are held in the names of brokers, dealers or clearing agencies. Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of the five-year cumulative total stockholder return for onsemi, the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index ("SOX"), and the Standard and Poor's 500 ("S&P 500"). The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2019 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested. Note that past stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The performance graph in this Form 10-K shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act as a result of this furnishing, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference. We have neither declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering. Our future dividend policy with respect to our common stock will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, debt restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion. Our outstanding debt facilities may limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay and share repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program (as defined below). We may pay dividends and buy back shares under the Share Repurchase Program in an unlimited amount so long as, after giving effect thereto, the consolidated total net leverage ratio (calculated in accordance with our Credit Agreement) does not exceed 2.75 to 1.00. Additionally, under a different provision, so long as no 32 default has occurred and is continuing or results therefrom, our Credit Agreement permits us to pay cash dividends to our common stockholders, buy back shares under the Share Repurchase Program, or a combination thereof, in an amount up to $350.0 million per year. See Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further discussion of our Credit Agreement. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table provides information regarding repurchases of our common stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2024: Period (1) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share ($) (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs ($ in millions) ($) (3) September 28, 2024 - October 25, 2024 $ $ 1,986.0 October 26, 2024 - November 22, 2024 1,986.0 November 23, 2024 - December 31, 2024 3,000,140 66.68 3,000,140 1,786.0 Total 3,000,140 66.68 3,000,140 (1)The periods represent our fiscal month start and end dates for the fourth quarter of 2024. (2)The price per share is based on the fair market value at the time of tender, repurchase or exercise of outstanding put options, respectively. (3)Represents the authorized amount remaining under the Share Repurchase Program (as defined below) announced on February 6, 2023 to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of shares of our common stock through December 31, 2025 (exclusive of fees, commissions and other expenses). Share Repurchase Program In February 2023, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the Share Repurchase Program), which allows for the repurchase of our common stock from time to time through a variety of methods, including in privately negotiated transactions or open market transactions, such as pursuant to a trading plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act or a combination of methods. The Share Repurchase Program, which does not require us to purchase any minimum amount of our common stock, allows for repurchases up to $3.0 billion from February 8, 2023 through December 31, 2025 (exclusive of fees, commissions and other expenses). Any repurchases will be at the Companys discretion and will be subject to market conditions, the price of our shares and other factors. The Share Repurchase Program may be modified, suspended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time without prior notice. The repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program amounted to an aggregate purchase price of approximately $650 million during the year ended December 31, 2024 (excluding fees, commissions and other expenses). There were approximately $564 million in repurchases of common stock for the year ended December 31, 2023 and approximately $260 million in repurchases of common stock under the previous share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2022 (in each case excluding fees, commissions and other expenses). During January 2025, the Company acquired 1.6 million shares for $100.0 million under the Share Repurchase Program pursuant to a 10b5-1 trading arrangement. See Note 10: ''Earnings Per Share and Equity'' of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information on the Share Repurchase Program. Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties, and other factors and speak only as of the filing date. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 33 Executive Overview This executive overview presents summarized information regarding our business and operating trends only. For further details, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its entirety. onsemi Results Our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $7,082.3 million, representing a decrease of 14.2% from $8,253.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. During 2024, we reported net income attributable to onsemi of $1,572.8 million compared to $2,183.7 million in 2023. Our operating income totaled $1,767.7 million during 2024 compared to $2,538.7 million during 2023. Our gross margin decreased by approximately 170 basis points to 45.4% in 2024 from 47.1% in 2023. The decrease in our operating results was primarily due to decreased demand in our automotive and industrial end-markets resulting in lower sales volumes and the corresponding underutilization of our manufacturing facilities. See discussion under "Results of Operations" for the reasons for the fluctuations year-over-year. Business and Macroeconomic Environment The semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical, has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. During 2024, the semiconductor industry continued to experience a softening demand and uncertainty due to macroeconomic factors and the geopolitical environment. We are monitoring the economic environment and related forecasts for indicators that would suggest the global economic slowdown could continue for an extended period. Given the current conditions, we are actively managing and have taken corrective actions in our manufacturing capacity and spending to align with the forecasted demand. We intend to continue these actions during 2025; however, we believe the current volatility in general economic conditions is not expected to have a significant impact on our long-term strategic and growth initiatives. We continue to evaluate cost-saving initiatives to be able to align our overall cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our expected revenue, spending and capacity levels to help offset softening demand, increased manufacturing and operating costs. We have taken, and continue to take actions, including but not limited to, exiting product lines that do not enhance gross margin or satisfy strategic objectives and aligning internal manufacturing capacity and resources to external demand. See Note 7: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information relating to our most recent cost-saving initiatives. Results of Operations A discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to December 31, 2023 is included below. For a discussion and comparison of the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 with the year ended December 31, 2022, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on February 5, 2024. 34 Operating Results The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in millions): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change Revenue $ 7,082.3 $ 8,253.0 $ (1,170.7) Cost of revenue 3,866.2 4,369.5 (503.3) Gross profit 3,216.1 3,883.5 (667.4) Operating expenses: Research and development 612.7 577.3 35.4 Selling and marketing 273.5 279.1 (5.6) General and administrative 376.3 362.4 13.9 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 52.0 51.1 0.9 Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net 133.9 74.9 59.0 Total operating expenses 1,448.4 1,344.8 103.6 Operating income 1,767.7 2,538.7 (771.0) Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (62.3) (74.8) 12.5 Interest income 111.4 93.1 18.3 Loss on debt refinancing and prepayment (13.3) 13.3 Loss on divestiture of businesses (0.7) 0.7 Other income (expense), net 20.6 (7.2) 27.8 Other income (expense), net 69.7 (2.9) 72.6 Income before income taxes 1,837.4 2,535.8 (698.4) Income tax provision (262.8) (350.2) 87.4 Net income 1,574.6 2,185.6 (611.0) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (1.8) (1.9) 0.1 Net income attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 1,572.8 $ 2,183.7 $ (610.9) 35 The following table summarizes certain information relating to our segment results (in millions): 2024 As a % of Total 2023 (1) As a % of Total Dollar Change Revenue: PSG $ 3,348.2 47.3 % $ 3,880.4 47.0 % $ (532.2) AMG 2,609.1 36.8 % 3,057.1 37.0 % (448.0) ISG 1,125.0 15.9 % 1,315.5 16.0 % (190.5) Total $ 7,082.3 100.0 % $ 8,253.0 100.0 % $ (1,170.7) Cost of revenue: PSG $ 1,963.8 50.8 % $ 2,058.5 47.1 % $ (94.7) AMG 1,302.8 33.7 % 1,635.8 37.4 % (333.0) ISG 599.6 15.5 % 675.2 15.5 % (75.6) Total $ 3,866.2 100.0 % $ 4,369.5 100.0 % $ (503.3) Gross profit: (2) PSG $ 1,384.4 41.3 % $ 1,821.9 47.0 % $ (437.5) AMG 1,306.3 50.1 % 1,421.3 46.5 % (115.0) ISG 525.4 46.7 % 640.3 48.7 % (114.9) Total $ 3,216.1 45.4 % $ 3,883.5 47.1 % $ (667.4) (1)During the first quarter of 2024, the Company reorganized certain reporting units and its segment reporting structure. As a result of the reorganization of divisions within PSG and AMG, the prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation. (2)Gross profit margin as a percent of respective segment revenue balances Revenue Revenue was $7,082.3 million and $8,253.0 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decrease from 2023 to 2024 of $1,170.7 million, or 14.2%, was attributable to lower sales volumes across all segments, which are further explained below. We had one customer, a distributor, whose revenue accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. There was no customer whose revenue exceeded 10% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. Revenue from PSG Revenue from PSG decreased by $532.2 million, or approximately 13.7%, during 2024 compared to 2023. Revenue from our Multi-Market Power Division, Industrial Power Division and Automotive Power Division decreased by $250.8 million, $162.2 million and $119.1 million, respectively, primarily driven by a decrease in demand in the automotive and industrial end-markets. Revenue from AMG Revenue from AMG decreased by $448.0 million, or approximately 14.7%, during 2024 compared to 2023. Revenue from our Power Management Division, Sensor Interface Division and Integrated Circuit Division decreased by $269.1 million, $101.5 million and $77.4 million, respectively, also due to the decrease in demand in the automotive and industrial end-markets. Revenue from ISG Revenue from ISG decreased by $190.5 million, or approximately 14.5%, during 2024 compared to 2023, which was driven by a decrease in revenue from our Industrial and Consumer Solutions Division and Automotive Sensing Division of $107.8 million and $82.7 million, respectively, primarily due to the decrease in demand in the automotive and industrial end-markets. 36 Revenue by Geographic Location Revenue by geographic location, based on sales billed from the respective country or regions, was as follows (dollars in millions): 2024 As a % of Revenue (1) 2023 As a % of Revenue (1) Hong Kong $ 1,779.3 25.1 % $ 2,168.6 26.3 % Singapore 1,733.2 24.5 % 1,938.8 23.5 % United Kingdom 1,637.8 23.1 % 1,753.4 21.2 % United States 1,307.5 18.5 % 1,573.7 19.1 % Other 624.5 8.8 % 818.5 9.9 % Total Revenue $ 7,082.3 $ 8,253.0 (1)Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit was $3,216.1 million and $3,883.5 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing a decrease of $667.4 million or approximately 17.2%. This was primarily due to the decline in sales volume in both our existing products and new products which negatively impacted gross profit by approximately $630 million and $122 million, respectively. This was partially offset by a reduction in the lower-margin manufacturing services revenue at our EFK location which favorably impacted gross profit by approximately $85 million. Our gross margin decreased by 1.7 percentage points from 47.1% for the year ended December 31, 2023 to 45.4% for the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to the impact of the factors explained in the segment gross margin sections below. PSG gross profit decreased by $437.4 million, primarily driven by the decline in sales volume in both existing products and new products which negatively impacted gross profit by approximately $316 million and $121 million, respectively. PSG gross margin decreased by 5.6 percentage points to 41.3% from 47.0%, primarily as a result of the decline in volume, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, and the related impact of unfavorable product mix. AMG gross profit decreased by $115.1 million, primarily driven by the decline in sales volume from existing products, which negatively impacted gross profit by approximately $200 million, partially offset by improved gross profit of approximately $85 million from the lower-margin manufacturing services at our EFK location. AMG gross margin increased by 3.6 percentage points to 50.1% from 46.5%, primarily due to the reduction in the lower-margin manufacturing services revenue at our EFK location. ISG gross profit decreased by $114.9 million, primarily driven by the decline in sales volume from existing products. ISG gross margin decreased 2.0 percentage points to 46.7% from 48.7%, primarily driven by lower sales volumes and the related impact of the underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, along with unfavorable changes in product mix. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses were $612.7 million and $577.3 million, or approximately 9% and 7% of revenue for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $35.4 million, or approximately 6% year-over-year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll-related expenses and production supplies, partially offset by a decrease in variable compensation. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $273.5 million and $279.1 million, or approximately 4% and 3% of revenue for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing a decrease of $5.6 million, or approximately 2% year-over-year. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in sales commissions and variable compensation. 37 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $376.3 million and $362.4 million, or approximately 5% and 4% of revenue for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $13.9 million, or approximately 4% year-over-year. The increase was primarily due to increased consulting fees associated with information technology initiatives partially offset by a decrease in the bad debt provision with a strategic business partner which was recorded in the prior year. Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $52.0 million and $51.1 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $0.9 million, or approximately 2%, year-over-year. Expenses were consistent between periods as there were no significant acquisitions or divestitures. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net was $133.9 million and $74.9 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $59.0 million. Amounts incurred during 2024 primarily represent severance and asset impairment charges associated with the 2024 business realignment efforts. Charges in 2023 related primarily to the business realignment efforts during 2023. For additional information, see Note 7: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Other Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $12.5 million, or approximately 17%, to $62.3 million during 2024 compared to $74.8 million in 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the pay down of higher variable-rate debt and replacement by the 0.50% Notes in 2023. Our average gross amount of long-term debt balance (including current maturities) during 2024 and 2023 was $3,379.9 million and $3,304.1 million, respectively. Our weighted average interest rate on our gross amount of long-term debt (including current maturities) was 1.8% and 2.3% per annum in 2024 and 2023, respectively. Interest income Interest income increased by $18.3 million, or approximately 20%, to $111.4 million during 2024 compared to $93.1 million in 2023, primarily due to higher interest rates and increased balances in interest-bearing accounts. See "Key Financing and Capital Events" below and Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities. Loss on Debt Refinancing and Prepayment There were no debt refinancing or prepayment transactions during 2024. We recorded a loss on debt refinancing and prepayment of $13.3 million during 2023, due to the write-off relating to the repayment of the Term Loan "B" Facility. See "Key Financing and Capital Events" below and Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net was income of $20.6 million in 2024, compared to expense of $7.2 million in 2023. We received $9.5 million of dividend income in 2024 with no corresponding amounts in 2023. Actuarial gains on pension plans were $12.2 million compared to losses of $4.0 million during 2023 and fluctuations in foreign currencies resulting in increased transaction gains. Income Tax Provision We recorded an income tax provision of $262.8 million and $350.2 million in 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 14.3% and 13.8%. For additional information, see Note 16: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility as well as new debt and/or equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our cash requirements by utilizing any or a combination of these principal sources. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were approximately $2,691.3 million and $300.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2024 and our Revolving Credit Facility had approximately $1.1 billion available for future borrowings as of December 31, 2024. We require cash to: (i) fund our operating expenses, working capital requirements, outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments; (ii) service our debt, including principal and interest; (iii) incur capital expenditures; and (iv) repurchase our common stock. During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. We believe that the key factors that could adversely affect our internal and external sources of cash include: changes in demand for our products, competitive pricing pressures, supply chain constraints, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, our ability to make progress on the achievement of our business strategy and sustainability goals, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business; and the debt and equity capital markets could impact our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. Sources and Uses of Cash The following are the significant sources and uses of cash during 2024: Cash flows from operating activities of $1,906.4 million. Purchase of property, plant & equipment of $694.0 million. Repurchases of approximately 9.1 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $650 million under the Share Repurchase Program. Operating Activities Our long-term cash generation is dependent on our ability to generate cash from our operations. Our cash flows from operating activities were $1,906.4 million, $1,977.5 million and $2,633.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2024 decreased by $71.1 million, or 3.6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 and was primarily attributable to a reduction in net income driven by lower end-market demand for our products partially offset by the timing of cash receipts and payments related to working capital balances. Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and meeting manufacturing and operating cost targets. Management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows. 39 Investing Activities Our cash flows used in investing activities were $1,009.8 million, $1,737.9 million and $705.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease of $728.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures and payments for the acquisition of our EFK location during the year ended 2023, partially offset by the net impact of purchases and maturities of short-term investments. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023and 2022, we paid $694.0 million, $1,539.1 million and $1,036.0 million, respectively, for capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures as a percent of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023and 2022 was approximately 10%, 19% and 12%, respectively. In 2025, based on current plans, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately 5% of revenue. Financing Activities Our cash flows used in financing activities were $683.8 million, $686.5 million and $370.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We used cash for share repurchases of $654.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to $564.2 million in 2023. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2023, we had net cash outflows related to the establishment of our new Credit Agreement. During January 2025, we acquired 1.6 million shares for $100.0 million under the Share Repurchase Program, subject to a 10b5-1 trading arrangement. We expect to continue to opportunistically repurchase under our Share Repurchase Program subject to market conditions, the price of our shares and other factors (including liquidity needs). However, the Share Repurchase Program may be modified, suspended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time without prior notice. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information related to liquidity matters. Debt As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 0% Notes, 0.50% Notes and 3.875% Notes and with the financial covenants included in the Credit Agreement. The 0% Notes, 0.50% Notes and 3.875% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of onsemi and its guarantor subsidiaries, rank equally in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior debt and, as unsecured obligations, are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. Failure to comply with any of our covenants or any other terms of our Credit Agreement could result in higher interest rates in our borrowings or the acceleration of the maturities of our outstanding debt. In order to remain in compliance with the various financial covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, our capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, as well as financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. As of December 31, 2024, there was outstanding $804.9 million aggregate principal amount of the 0% Notes, $1,500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% Notes and $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% Notes. The associated interest expense related to our indebtedness will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations. See Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Key Financing and Capital Events Overview We continually evaluate our debt and capital structure and, when appropriate, we have completed various measures to secure liquidity, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend or replace existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. 2024 Financing Events Repurchases of approximately 9.1 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $650 million under the Share Repurchase Program. 40 2023 Financing Events Issuance of $1.5 billion of 0.50% Notes on February 28, 2023, the net proceeds of which were used to repay $1,086.0 million of the existing indebtedness under the Term Loan "B" Facility, the related transaction fees and expenses and to pay approximately $171.5 million net cost of the related convertible note hedges. Entering into a new Credit Agreement consisting of a $1.5 billion Revolving Credit Facility and draw-down of $375.0 million to repay the entire outstanding balance under the Revolver due 2024 in the second quarter of 2023. Repurchases of approximately 7.6 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $564 million under the Share Repurchase Program. Repayment of the 1.625% Notes amounting to $119.6 million in cash upon maturity and issuance of approximately 4.5 million shares of common stock to settle the excess over the principal. 2022 Financing Events Draw down of $500.0 million on the Revolver due 2024 and partial repayment of the outstanding balance on the Term Loan "B" Facility and corresponding write off of $7.3 million of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs. Repurchases of approximately 4.0 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $260 million under the previous share repurchase program. Settlement with certain holders of the 1.625% Notes to repurchase or exchange, as applicable, $16.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 1.625% Notes for a total consideration of $16.0 million in cash and 552,000 shares of common stock. Entry into the Tenth Amendment to the Prior Credit Agreement to transition the interest rate base from LIBOR to Term SOFR. See Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. We utilize the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our financial statements. In addition to our critical accounting policies below, see Note 2: ''Significant Accounting Policies'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and base our estimates on experience, current and expected future conditions, third-party evaluations and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Significant estimates have been used by management in conjunction with the following: (i) calculation of future payouts for customer incentives and amounts subject to allowances and returns; (ii) valuation and obsolescence relating to inventories; (iii) measurement of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, and evaluations of uncertain tax positions; (iv) assumptions used in business combinations; and (v) testing for impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We generate revenue from sales of our semiconductor products to direct customers and distributors. We also generate revenue, to a much lesser extent, from product development agreements and manufacturing services provided to customers. We apply a five-step approach in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized: (i) identifying the contract with a customer; (ii) identifying the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determining the transaction price; (iv) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognizing revenue when the 41 performance obligation is satisfied. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative stand-alone selling price. In determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation in an amount reflecting the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. Substantially all of our revenue is recognized at the time control of the products transfers to the customer. For sales agreements, we have identified the promise to transfer products, each of which is distinct, to be the performance obligation. For product development agreements, we have identified the completion of a service defined in the agreement to be the performance obligation. We recognize revenue from manufacturing services when we satisfy the performance obligation by transferring the promised goods or services to the customer. Depending on the terms of the applicable contractual agreement with the customer, revenue is recognized at the point in time when the customer obtains control of the promised goods or service, or over time when the created asset has no alternate use to us and there is an enforceable right to payment for the performance to date. Sales to certain distributors, primarily those with ship and credit rights, can be subject to price adjustment on certain products. We develop an estimate of their expected claims under the ship and credit program based on the historical claims data submitted by product and customer and expected future claims, which requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to the amount of each claim as well as the historical period used to develop the estimate. Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 30 days. Our direct customers do not have the right to return products other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Sales to distributors, however, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights and stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, ship and credit claims and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenue is recognized, and are netted against revenue. For non-quality related returns, we recognize a related asset for the right to recover returned products with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold. Payment terms for direct customers generally require payment within 30 days but can extend up to 90 days. We record a reserve for cash discounts as a reduction to accounts receivable and a reduction to revenue, based on the experience with each customer. Inventories. We carry our inventories at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value and record provisions for potential excess and obsolete inventories based upon a regular analysis of inventory on hand compared to historical and projected end-user demand. The determination of projected end-user demand requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to projected unit sales for each product. These provisions can influence our results from operations. For example, when demand falls for a given part, all or a portion of the related inventory that is considered to be in excess of anticipated demand is reserved, impacting our cost of revenue and gross profit. The majority of product inventory that has been previously reserved is ultimately discarded. Although we do sell some products that have previously been written down, such sales have historically been consistently insignificant and the related impact on our margins has also been insignificant. Income Taxes. Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which we cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, estimated future taxable income, feasible tax planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and taxable income in prior carryback years, if a carryback is permitted, are considered. If we determine it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the remaining deferred tax assets will not be realized, the valuation allowance will be increased with a charge to income tax expense. Conversely, if we determine it is more likely than not to be able to utilize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be recorded as a reduction to income tax expense. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. No tax benefit is recognized for tax 42 positions that are not more likely than not to be sustained. Our practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. Evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of tax audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in income tax expense in the period in which the change is made, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. Business Combinations. We use estimates and assumptions in allocating the purchase price of acquired business by utilizing established valuation techniques appropriate for the technology industry to record the acquired assets and liabilities at fair value. We utilize the income approach, cost approach or market approach, depending upon which approach is the most appropriate based on the nature and reliability of available data. If the income approach is used, the fair value determination is predicated upon the value of the future cash flows that an asset is expected to generate over its economic life and involves significant assumptions as to cash flows, associated expenses, long-term growth rates and discount rates. The cost approach takes into account the cost to replace (or reproduce) the asset and involves assumptions relating to the asset's value of physical, functional and/or economic obsolescence that has occurred with respect to the asset. The market approach is used to estimate value from an analysis of actual transactions or offerings for economically comparable assets available as of the valuation date. Determining the fair value of acquired technology assets is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate, revenue growth rates, projected gross margins, and estimated research and development expenses. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate our goodwill for potential impairment annually during the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluation consists of a qualitative assessment, and if deemed necessary, a quantitative test is performed which compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Determining the fair value of our reporting units is subjective in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including projected net cash flows, discount and long-term growth rates. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby the fair value of the reporting unit is derived from the present value of estimated future cash flows. The assumptions about estimated cash flows include factors such as future revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, and industry trends. We consider historical rates and current market conditions when determining the discount and long-term growth rates to use in its analysis. We consider other valuation methods, such as the cost approach or market approach, if it is determined that these methods provide a more representative approximation of fair value. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is first assessed when the undiscounted expected cash flows derived for an asset group are less than its carrying amount. Impairment losses, if applicable, are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset group exceeds its fair value and are recognized in operating results. We continually apply our best judgment when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of an impaired asset group. The dynamic economic environment in which we operate and the resulting assumptions used to estimate future cash flows impact the outcome of our impairment tests. As we continue to implement our business strategy to rationalize products and manufacturing locations to transition to a lighter internal fabrication model, there could be divestiture transactions that result in a portion of goodwill or other assets being de-recognized and result in accounting charges. Contingencies. We are involved in a variety of legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Based on the available information, we evaluate the relevant range and likelihood of potential outcomes and we record the appropriate liability when the amount is deemed probable and reasonably estimable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 4: ''Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Other Developments'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.