Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (2011 Form 10-K), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on February 22, 2012, and our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2012, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties, and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed below or elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2011 Form 10-K. Company Highlights for the Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 Total revenues of $744.4 million Gross margin of 32.9 percent Net income per fully diluted share of $0.06 Executive Overview This Executive Overview presents summary information regarding our industry, markets, business and operating trends only. For further information regarding the events summarized herein, you should read Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in its entirety. Industry Overview We participate in unit and revenue surveys and use data summarized by the World Semiconductor Trade Statistics (WSTS) group to evaluate overall semiconductor market trends and also to track our progress against the total market in the areas we provide semiconductor components. The most recently published estimates of WSTS project a compound annual growth rate in our total addressable market of approximately 4.9% during 2012 through 2014. These are not our projections and may not be indicative of actual results, but we, like many of our competitors, use this information as helpful, third party projections and estimates. Business Overview We are a supplier of high performance silicon solutions for energy efficient electronics. Our broad portfolio of power and signal management, logic, discrete and custom devices helps customers efficiently solve their design challenges in automotive, communications, computing, consumer, industrial, LED lighting, medical, military/aerospace, smart grid and power applications. We design, manufacture and market an extensive portfolio of semiconductor components that address the design needs of sophisticated electronic systems and products. Our power management semiconductor components control, convert, protect and monitor the supply of power to the different elements within a wide variety of electronic devices. Our custom application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) use analog, digital signal processing, mixed-signal and advanced logic capabilities to act as the brain behind many of our automotive, medical, military, aerospace, consumer and industrial customers unique products. Our data management semiconductor components provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing and communications systems. Our standard semiconductor components serve as building block components within virtually all types of electronic devices. These various products fall into the logic, analog, discrete, image sensors and memory categories used by the WSTS group. We serve a broad base of end-user markets, including automotive, communications, computing, consumer, medical, industrial, smart grid and military/aerospace. Applications for our products in these markets include portable electronics, computers, game consoles, servers, automotive and industrial control systems, LED lighting, power supplies, networking and telecommunications gear and automated test equipment. 31 Table of Contents Our extensive portfolio of devices enables us to offer advanced integrated circuits and the building block components that deliver system level functionality and design solutions. Our product portfolio comprises approximately 40,500 products and we shipped approximately 8.9 billion units in the first three months of 2012 as compared to 10.6 billion units in the first three months of 2011. We specialize in micro packages, which offer increased performance characteristics while reducing the critical board space inside todays ever shrinking electronic devices. We believe that our ability to offer a broad range of products, global manufacturing network and logistics provides our customers with single source purchasing on a cost-effective and timely basis. Segments We are organized into four operating segments, which also represent four reporting segments: computing and consumer products group; automotive, industrial, medical and mil-aero products group; standard products group; and SANYO Semiconductor products group. Each of our major product lines has been assigned to a segment, as illustrated in the table below, based on our operating strategy. Because many products are sold into different end markets, the total revenue reported for a segment is not indicative of actual sales in the end-market associated with that segment, but rather is the sum of the revenues from the product lines assigned to that segment. From time to time we reassess the alignment of our product families and devices to our operating segments and may move product families or individual devices from one operating segment to another. Customers We have approximately 417 direct customers worldwide, and we also service approximately 275 significant original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) indirectly through our distributor and electronic manufacturing service provider customers. Our direct and indirect customers include: (1) leading OEMs in a broad variety of industries, such as Continental Automotive Systems, Delta, Samsung, Hella, Delphi, LG Electronics, Motorola Mobility, Motorola Solutions, Panasonic, Schneider, GE, Honeywell, Broadcom, Siemens, Nokia, Cisco Systems, and Sony Ericsson; (2) electronic manufacturing service providers, such as Flextronics, Celestica, Benchmark Electronic, and Jabil; and (3) global distributors, such as Arrow, Avnet, EBV Elektronik, Future, World Peace and Yosun. Operating Facilities Our primary domestic design operations are located in Arizona, California, Idaho, Oregon, Rhode Island and Texas, as well as foreign design operations in Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Korea, Romania and Switzerland. Additionally, we currently operate domestic manufacturing facilities in Idaho and Oregon and have foreign manufacturing facilities in Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam . New Product Innovation As a result of our research and development initiatives, we introduced 285 new product families in 2011. During the first three months of 2012, we introduced an additional 68 new product families. Our new product development efforts continue to be focused on building solutions in power management that appeal to customers in focused market segments and across multiple high growth applications. As always, it is our practice to regularly re-evaluate our research and development spending, to assess the deployment of resources and to review the funding of high growth technologies. We deploy people and capital with the goal of maximizing our investment in research and development in order to position ourselves for continued growth. As a result, we often invest opportunistically to refresh existing products in our commodity logic, analog, memory and discrete products. We invest in these initiatives when we believe there is a strong customer demand or opportunities to innovate our current portfolio in high growth markets and applications. Business and Macroeconomic Environment We have recognized efficiencies from implemented restructuring activities and programs and continue to implement profitability enhancement programs to improve our cost structure; however, the semiconductor 32 Table of Contents industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Over the past year, we believe the business environment has experienced significant uncertainty and volatility in the United States and Europe along with softening demand. These factors combined with the on-going impact of the flooding in Thailand, have either impacted us directly or have affected our customers and suppliers, which in turn has affected our business, including sales, our production capacity, and results of operations. Outlook ON Semiconductor Q2 2012 Outlook Based upon product booking trends, backlog levels, and estimated turns levels, we estimate that our revenues will be approximately $745.0 million to $785.0 million in the second quarter of 2012. Backlog levels for the second quarter of 2012 represent approximately 80% to 85% of our anticipated second quarter 2012 revenues. We estimate average selling prices for the second quarter of 2012 will be down approximately 1% to 2% compared to the first quarter of 2012. For the second quarter of 2012, we estimate that gross margin as a percentage of revenues will be approximately 34% to 35%. See also Note 15: Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for information on the voluntary retirement program at certain SANYO Semiconductor subsidiaries that was initiated on April 30, 2012 and is expected to result in a charge ranging from $40.0 million to $50.0 million during the second quarter of 2012. Results of Operations Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 Compared to Quarter ended April 1, 2011 The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011. The amounts in the following table are in millions: Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 April 1, 2011 Dollar Change Revenues $ 744.4 $ 870.6 $ (126.2 ) Cost of revenues 499.2 628.2 (129.0 ) Gross profit 245.2 242.4 2.8 Operating expenses: Research and development 91.4 91.1 0.3 Selling and marketing 45.6 49.4 (3.8 ) General and administrative 42.0 47.1 (5.1 ) Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 11.1 9.7 1.4 Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net 11.5 12.4 (0.9 ) Total operating expenses 201.6 209.7 (8.1 ) Operating income 43.6 32.7 10.9 Other income (expenses), net: Interest expense (15.7 ) (17.8 ) 2.1 Interest income 0.5 0.3 0.2 Other 4.7 (2.5 ) 7.2 Gain on SANYO Semiconductor acquisition 24.3 (24.3 ) Other income (expenses), net (10.5 ) 4.3 (14.8 ) Income before income taxes and minority interests 33.1 37.0 (3.9 ) Income tax provision (4.1 ) (0.8 ) (3.3 ) Net income 29.0 36.2 (7.2 ) Net income attributable to minority interests (0.8 ) (0.7 ) (0.1 ) Net income attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 28.2 $ 35.5 $ (7.3 ) 33 Table of Contents Revenues Revenues were $744.4 million and $870.6 million for the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011, respectively. The decrease in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011 was primarily due to a reduction in revenues related to our SANYO Semiconductor products group of $72.2 million. Additionally, volume and mix declined approximately 12% combined with a reduction in average selling prices of 3%. The revenues by reportable segment were as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 As a % of Revenue Quarter Ended April 1, 2011 As a % of Revenue Computing & Consumer Products Group $ 138.3 19 % $ 155.7 18 % Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 203.4 27 % 208.7 24 % Standard Products Group 196.8 26 % 228.1 26 % SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 205.9 28 % 278.1 32 % Total revenues $ 744.4 $ 870.6 Revenues from the computing and consumer products group decreased $17.4 million or 11% from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012. The decrease can be attributed to a $15.5 million or 12% decrease in revenues from analog products combined with a $1.9 million or 8% decrease in revenues from standard logic products. Revenues from the automotive, industrial, medical and mil-aero products group decreased $5.3 million or 3% from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012. The decrease is primarily attributed to revenue decreases from memory products of $4.3 million or 22% and analog products of $1.2 million or 6%, partially offset by revenue increases attributed to TMOS products of 35%, foundry products of 23% and ASIC products of 1%. Revenues from the standard products group decreased $31.3 million or 14% from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012. The revenue decrease is primarily attributed to decreases from discrete standard products of $20.4 million or 16% and TMOS standard products of $11.6 million or 16%. Revenues from the SANYO Semiconductor products group decreased $72.2 million or 26% from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012 mainly due to a reduction in demand partially attributed to the continued effects from the Thailand flooding, combined with ongoing strengthening of the Japanese yen which reduced our reported revenue for yen based sales. Revenues by geographic area as a percentage of total revenues were as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 As a % of Revenue Quarter Ended April 1, 2011 As a % of Revenue Americas $ 120.7 16 % $ 133.4 15 % Asia/Pacific 517.8 70 % 626.3 72 % Europe 105.9 14 % 110.9 13 % Total $ 744.4 100 % $ 870.6 100 % A majority of our end customers, served directly or through distribution channels, are manufacturers of electronic devices. For the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011, we had no single customer that accounted for 10% of our total revenues. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit The gross profit by reportable segment for the quarters March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011 was as follows (in millions): Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 As a % of Segment Revenue Quarter Ended April 1, 2011 As a % of Segment Revenue Computing & Consumer Products Group $ 52.5 38.0 % $ 63.7 40.9 % Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero 91.3 44.9 % 104.3 50.0 % Standard Products Group 73.5 37.3 % 86.2 37.8 % SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 39.9 19.4 % 4.4 1.6 % Gross profit by segment $ 257.2 $ 258.6 Unallocated Manufacturing (1) (12.0 ) (1.6 )% (16.2 ) (1.9 )% Total gross profit $ 245.2 32.9 % $ 242.4 27.8 % (1) Unallocated manufacturing costs are being shown as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross profit was $245.2 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $242.4 million in the first quarter of 2011. The gross profit increase of $2.8 million in the first quarter of 2012 is primarily attributable to the SANYO Semiconductor products group, partially offset by a decline in computing and consumer products, automotive, industrial, medical and mil-aero products group and standard products group. The $35.5 million increase in gross profit for the SANYO Semiconductor products group was driven by the impact of not having the expensing of fair market value of inventory and non-cash manufacturing expenses in the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by increased inventory reserves of $10.5 million. The reduction in gross profit from computing and consumer products, automotive, industrial, medical and mil-aero products and standard products was mainly driven by reductions in average selling prices and an unfavorable change in volume and mix in these segments. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased from 27.8% in the first quarter of 2011 to 32.9% in the first quarter of 2012, primarily due to increased gross margin of our SANYO Semiconductor segment, which included the impact of the expensing of the step-up in fair market value of inventory of $20.3 million and $50.0 million of expensing of non-cash manufacturing expenses in the first quarter of 2011. For the remaining segments, the gross margin decreased due to lower average selling prices during the first quarter of 2012. Operating Expenses Research and development expenses were $91.4 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $91.1 million in the first quarter of 2011, representing an increase of $0.3 million or 0.3%. Research and development expenses represented 12.3% and 10.5% of revenues for the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2011, respectively. Research and development expense remained flat primarily due to increased research and development expense associated with our acquisitions, offset by decreased in performance bonus as a result of our lack of achievement of certain financial goals and a decrease in share based compensation. Selling and marketing expenses were $45.6 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $49.4 million in the first quarter of 2011, representing a decrease of $3.8 million or 7.7%. Selling and marketing expenses represented 6.1% and 5.7% of revenues for the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2011, respectively. The decrease in selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to decreased salaries and wages due to mandatory vacation, decrease in performance bonus as a result of our lack of achievement of certain financial goals, decrease in share based compensation and decreases in travel associated with acquisition related travel. 35 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses were $42.0 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $47.1 million in the first quarter of 2011, representing a decrease of $5.1 million or 10.8%. General and administrative expenses represented 5.6% and 5.4% of revenues for first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2011, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to consultants associated with acquisition related activities, decrease in performance bonus as a result of our lack of achievement of certain financial goals and decreases in share based compensation expense, partially offset by increases in other miscellaneous expenses. Other Operating Expenses The following table shows the amounts of other operating expenses for the quarter ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2012 (in millions): Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 Quarter Ended April 1, 2011 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets $ 11.1 $ 9.7 Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net $ 11.5 $ 12.4 Other Operating ExpensesAmortization of AcquisitionRelated Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $11.1 million and $9.7 million for the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2012, respectively. The increase of $1.4 million was primarily attributed to increased amortization of in-process research and development projects associated with our acquisition of the CMOS Image Sensor Business Unit that were completed during fiscal 2011 and for which amortization did not begin until after the projects were completed. Other Operating ExpensesRestructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net was $11.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $12.4 million in the first quarter of 2011. The information below summarizes the major activities for the quarter ended March 30, 2012. For detailed information see Note 4: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we announced plans to close our probe, assembly and test operations in Ayutthaya, Thailand and to partially close our Bang Pa In, Thailand facility as a result of the flooding in these regions. During the quarter ended March 30, 2012, we recorded $1.5 million of employee separation charges and other charges of $1.8 million for costs incurred since the announced closures. During the quarter ended March 30, 2012, we recorded $5.8 million of employee separation charges associated with the October 2011 announced shutdown of our Aizu, Japan wafer manufacturing facility, which is expected to be completed by June 2012. In January 2011, we acquired SANYO Semiconductor and announced plans to integrate certain operations of SANYO Semiconductor into our existing operations, primarily for cost savings purposes. During the quarter ended March 30, 2012, we recorded $2.3 million in exit costs associated with this program. 36 Table of Contents Operating Income Information about operating income (loss) from our reportable segments for the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011 is as follows, in millions: Computing & Consumer Group Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group Standard Products Group SANYO Semiconductor Products Group Total For quarter ended March 30, 2012: Segment operating income (loss) $ 20.9 $ 19.7 $ 46.9 $ (20.4 ) $ 67.1 For quarter ended April 1, 2011: Segment operating income (loss) $ 27.4 $ 32.5 $ 54.6 $ (42.8 ) $ 71.7 Depreciation and amortization expense is included in segment operating income. Reconciliations of segment information to financial statements is as follows, in millions: Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 April 1, 2011 Operating income for reportable segments $ 67.1 $ 71.7 Unallocated amounts: Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net (11.5 ) (12.4 ) Other unallocated manufacturing costs (12.0 ) (16.2 ) Other unallocated operating expenses (10.4 ) Operating income $ 43.6 $ 32.7 Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $2.1 million to $15.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $17.8 million in the first quarter of 2011. We recorded amortization of debt discount to interest expense of $7.2 million and $8.7 million for the quarters ended March 30, 2012 and April 1, 2011, respectively. Our average long-term debt balance (including current maturities and net of debt discount) in the first quarter of 2012 was $1,198.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 5.3%, compared to $1,080.5 million and a weighted average interest rate of 6.6% in the first quarter of 2011. Other Other expense, which is comprised of foreign currency translation gain or loss, increased $7.2 million from a loss of $2.5 million at April 1, 2011 to a gain of $4.7 million at March 30, 2012. The increase is attributable to the foreign exchange movements on the net underlying exposures that have no offsetting hedge positions. Gain on SANYO Semiconductor Acquisition The purchase price of SANYO Semiconductor was less than the fair value of its net assets, resulting in a gain on acquisition of $24.3 million. We believe the gain recognized upon acquisition was the result of a number of factors, including the following: SANYO Electric wanting to discontinue semiconductor operations, significant losses recognized by SANYO Electric, SANYO Electric viewing this as the best outcome for SANYO Semiconductor and the fact that we expect to incur future expenses associated with the transfer and consolidation of certain operations. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for the first quarter 2012 of $4.1 million included $4.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign operations and $0.2 million of interest on existing reserves for potential liabilities 37 Table of Contents in foreign taxing jurisdictions, partially offset by the reversal of $0.5 million for reserves and interest for potential liabilities in foreign taxing jurisdictions which were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during first quarter of 2012. The provision for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.8 million included $1.2 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign operations and $0.4 million of interest on existing reserves for potential liabilities in foreign taxing jurisdictions, partially offset by the reversal of $0.8 million for reserves and interest for potential liabilities in foreign taxing jurisdictions which were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during first quarter of 2011. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. Our effective tax rate was 12.4% for the quarter ended March 30, 2012, which is below the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, due to our domestic and foreign tax losses and tax rate differentials in our foreign subsidiaries. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance on all of our domestic deferred tax assets. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed in the United States, which we intend to reinvest in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, off-balance sheet arrangements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital, and long-term assets and liabilities. Cash Requirements Contractual Obligations During the first quarter of 2012, there have not been any material changes outside of the ordinary course of business to the contractual obligations table contained in our 2011 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. For information on long-term debt see Note 6: Long-Term Debt, operating leases see Note 9: Commitments and Contingencies and pension plans see Note 5: Balance Sheet Information located elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $580.1 million at March 30, 2012. Additionally, our balance of short-term investments was $312.2 million at March 30, 2012. We believe that our cash flows from operations, coupled with our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments at March 30, 2012 include approximately $547.1 million available in the United States. In addition to cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments already on hand in the United States, we have the ability to raise cash through existing credit facilities, new bank loans, debt obligations or by settling loans with our foreign subsidiaries in order to cover our domestic needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, we enter into various operating leases for buildings and equipment including our mainframe computer system, desktop computers, communications, foundry equipment and service agreements relating to this equipment. 38 Table of Contents In the normal course of business, we provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties initiated by either our subsidiaries or us, as required for transactions such as material purchase commitments, agreements to mitigate collection risk, leases or customs guarantees. Our senior revolving credit facility includes a $40.0 million availability for the issuance of letters of credit. A $0.2 million letter of credit was outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility as of March 30, 2012. A bank guarantee issued on our behalf under a non-reusable commitment credit with the bank had an outstanding amount of $3.6 million as of March 30, 2012. The Belgian bank that issued the guarantee has the right to create a mortgage on the real property of one of our European subsidiaries in the amount of $3.0 million, but had not done so as of March 30, 2012. We also had outstanding guarantees and letters of credit outside of our senior revolving credit facility and our non-reusable commitment credit totaling $10.1 million at March 30, 2012. As part of securing financing in the normal course of business, we issued guarantees related to our receivable financing, capital lease obligations and real estate mortgages which totaled approximately $110.1 million as of March 30, 2012. We are also a guarantor of SCI LLCs unsecured loan with SANYO Electric which had a balance of $330.3 million as of March 30, 2012. See Note 6: Long-Term Debt of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for further discussion. For our operating leases, we expect to make cash payments and similarly incur expenses totaling $114.7 million as payments come due. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these operating leases, letters of credit and guarantee arrangements. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe that in the foreseeable future we will not be required to make payments under the standby letters of credit or guarantee arrangements. Contingencies We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses due to intellectual property infringement, property damage including environmental contamination, personal injury, failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct, or breach of representations and warranties and covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets. In connection with the SANYO Semiconductor acquisition, we entered into an operational supply agreement that provides that if we continue to operate in certain of the SANYO Semiconductor manufacturing facilities in Japan using SANYO Electric resources through the end of 2012, including certain seconded employees, we received operation support credits of approximately $301.6 million, of which we have used approximately $222.0 million through March 30, 2012, leaving us a balance of $79.6 million as of March 30, 2012. There are no guarantees that we will be able to fully utilize these credits. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable indemnity rights to such customer for valid warranty claims. From time to time, we have been active in merger and acquisition activity. In connection with these mergers or acquisitions, we have agreed to indemnify the other party or parties to the merger or acquisition agreement for certain claims or occurrences, limited in most instances by time and/or monetary amounts. We and our subsidiaries provide for indemnification of directors, officers and other persons in accordance with limited liability agreements, certificates of incorporation, by-laws, articles of association or similar organizational documents, as the case may be. We maintain directors and officers insurance, which should enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. 39 Table of Contents In addition to the above, from time to time, we provide standard representations and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with sales of our securities and the engagement of financial advisers and also provide indemnities that protect the counterparties to these contracts in the event they suffer damages as a result of a breach of such representations and warranties or in certain other circumstances relating to the sale of securities or their engagement by us. While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations and under such agreements it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 9: Commitment and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements under the heading Legal Matters in this Form 10-Q for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also Part I, Item 1 BusinessGovernment Regulation of our 2011 Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. Sources and Uses of Cash We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, to make capital expenditures, for strategic acquisitions and investments, to repurchase our stock and other Company securities, and to pay debt service, including principal and interest and capital lease payments. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements through cash generated from operations and cash and cash equivalents on hand and short-term investments. Additionally, as part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and divestiture opportunities and proposals on a regular basis. We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows, including the impact on our business and operations as a result of the Thailand flooding, changes in demand for our products, competitive pricing pressures, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business; and Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing; and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. Related to the above, see Note 15: Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for information on the following: (i) the voluntary retirement program at certain SANYO Semiconductor subsidiaries that was initiated on April 30, 2012 and is expected to result in a charge ranging from $40.0 million to $50.0 million during the second quarter of 2012; and (ii) the retirement, on April 16, 2012, of our Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 when the Company paid a gross principal amount of approximately $96.2 million. 40 Table of Contents Our ability to service our long-term debt including our senior subordinated notes, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, as well as to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. We believe that cash flow from operating activities coupled with existing cash and cash equivalents will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs as well as enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements through at least the next twelve months. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. This evaluation currently includes evaluating the impact of the Thailand flooding and Japan earthquake and resulting tsunami. For example in first quarter of 2012, we paid $50.4 million for capital expenditures, while in the first quarter of 2011 we paid $88.7 million. Our current projection for capital expenditures in 2012 is $200.0 million to $250.0 million, of which our current minimum commitment is $71.5 million. The capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. Primary Cash Flow Sources Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Quarter Ended March 30, 2012 April 1, 2011 Summarized cash flow from operating activities Net income $ 29.0 $ 36.2 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 61.1 52.8 Non-cash manufacturing expenses associated with favorable supply agreement 50.0 Gain on acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor (24.3 ) Non-cash stock compensation expense 7.4 10.4 Non-cash interest 7.2 8.7 Provision for excess inventories 15.8 1.7 Other miscellaneous adjustments 1.7 0.7 Changes in assets and liabilities (exclusive of the impact of acquisitions): Receivables 27.3 (36.0 ) Inventories (23.2 ) 24.7 Deferred income on sales to distributors (18.5 ) 20.0 Other miscellaneous changes in assets and liabilities (39.4 ) (19.3 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 68.4 $ 125.6 Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. 41 Table of Contents Our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows and each of these components is discussed below. Working Capital Working capital fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. In times of escalating demand, our working capital requirements may increase as we purchase additional manufacturing materials and increase production. Our working capital may also be affected by restructuring programs, which may require us to use cash for severance payments, asset transfers and contract termination costs. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, was $824.1 million at March 30, 2012 and has fluctuated between $1,076.2 million and $523.7 million over the last eight quarter-ends. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives. Long-Term Assets and Liabilities Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, foreign tax receivables and capitalized debt issuance costs. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. Cash capital expenditures were $50.4 million in the first three months of 2012, compared to cash capital expenditures of $88.7 million during the first three months of 2011. We will continue to look for opportunities to make strategic purchases in the future for additional capacity. As a result of the Thailand flooding, we will also have to adjust our capital expenditures to replace the damaged equipment. Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, generally, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. 42 Table of Contents Key Financing Events Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants The following table presents the components of long-term debt as of March 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): March 30, 2012 December 31, 2011 Senior Revolving Credit Facility (up to $325.0 million) $ $ Loan with a Japanese company due 2012 through 2018, interest payable quarterly at 2.22% and 2.33%, respectively (1) 330.3 339.8 Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 (net of discount of $0.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively) (2) 95.9 94.2 1.875% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2025 (net of discount of $4.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively) (3) 90.1 88.4 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 (net of discount of $21.6 million and $24.5 million, respectively) (4) 210.8 207.9 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026, Series B (net of discount of $21.1 million and $22.0 million, respectively) (5) 177.5 176.6 Loan with Hong Kong bank, interest payable weekly at 1.99% and 2.04%, respectively 40.0 40.0 Loans with Philippine banks due 2012 through 2015, interest payable monthly and quarterly at an average rate of 2.01% and 2.01%, respectively 65.5 68.2 Loans with Chinese bank due 2013, interest payable quarterly at 4.33% and 4.44%, respectively 7.0 7.0 Loans with Japanese banks due through 2013, interest payable monthly and semi-annually at an average rate of 1.72% and 1.71%, respectively 3.1 3.5 Loan with Singapore bank, interest payable weekly at 1.97% and 1.97%, respectively 27.0 25.0 Loan with British finance company, interest payable monthly at 1.95% and 2.42%, respectively 10.9 13.1 U.S. real estate mortgages payable monthly through 2016 at an average rate of 4.857% 31.2 31.6 U.S. equipment financing payable monthly through 2015 at 3.23% 10.1 10.8 Capital lease obligations 89.6 100.9 Long-term debt, including current maturities 1,189.0 1,207.0 Less: Current maturities (377.1 ) (370.1 ) Long-term debt $ 811.9 $ 836.9 (1) This represents Semiconductor Component Industries, LLC (SCI LLCs) unsecured loan with SANYO Electric, which is guaranteed by us. (2) The Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 may be put back to us at the option of the holders of the notes on April 15 of 2012, 2014 and 2019 or called at our option on or after April 15, 2012. See Note 15: Subsequent Events of this Form 10-Q for discussion of the retirement of our Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024. (3) The 1.875% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2025 may be put back to us at the option of the holders of the notes on December 15 of 2012, 2015 and 2020 or called at our option on or after December 20, 2012. (4) The 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 may be put back to us at the option of the holders of the notes on December 15 of 2013, 2016 and 2021 or called at our option on or after December 20, 2013. (5) The 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026, Series B may be put back to us at the option of the holders of the notes on December 15 of 2016 and 2021 or called at our option on or after December 20, 2016. 43 Table of Contents Our Convertible Notes are subordinated to the senior indebtedness of ON Semiconductor and its Guarantor Subsidiaries (as defined in Note 14: Guarantor and Non-Guarantor Statements of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report) on the terms described in the indentures for such notes. As of March 30, 2012, we believe that we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024, our 1.875% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2025, our 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026 and our 2.625% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2026, Series B and with covenants relating to our senior revolving credit facility and various other debt agreements. We believe that we will be able to comply with the various covenants and other requirements contained in such indentures and debt agreements through March 30, 2013 . Cash Management Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms of new products. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 3: New Accounting Pronouncements of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. We utilize the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue . We generate revenue from sales of our semiconductor products to OEMs, electronic manufacturing service providers and distributors. We also generate revenue, although to a much lesser extent, from manufacturing services provided to customers. Distributor revenue is recognized in various ways within the industry. Some recognize revenue upon sale to the distributor, while others, like us, recognize revenue when the sale is made to the end customer. Additionally, there can often be a lag in the data collection from distributors, which makes the calculation of revenue recognition challenging. Due to our high distributor sales, revenue recognition is a critical accounting policy. We recognize revenue on sales to OEMs and electronic manufacturing service providers and sales of manufacturing services, net of provisions for related sales returns and allowances, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss pass to the customer (which is generally upon shipment), the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Title to products sold to distributors typically passes at the time of shipment by us so we record accounts receivable for the amount of the transaction, reduce our inventory for the products shipped and defer the related margin in our consolidated balance sheet given our inability to reliably estimate up front the effect of the returns and allowances with these distributors. We recognize the related revenue and cost of revenues when the distributor informs us that it has resold the products to the end user. Inaccuracies in the sales or inventory data provided to us by our distributors can therefore result in inaccuracy in our reporting revenues. Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 30 days. Taxes assessed by government authorities on revenue-producing transactions, including value added and excise taxes, are presented on a net basis (excluded from revenues) in the statement of operations. 44 Table of Contents Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience. Our OEM customers do not have the right to return our products, other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Sales to distributors, however, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products. Under our general agreements, distributors are allowed to return any product that we have removed from our price book. In addition, agreements with our distributors typically contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. However, since we defer recognition of revenue and gross profit on sales to distributors until the distributor resells the product, due to our inability to reliably estimate up front the effect of the returns and allowances with these distributors, sales returns and allowances have minimal impact on our results of operations. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenues are recognized, and are netted against revenues. Given that our revenues consist of a high volume of relatively similar products, our actual returns and allowances and warranty claims have not traditionally fluctuated significantly from period to period, and our returns and allowances and warranty provisions have historically been reasonably accurate. We generally warrant that products sold to our customers will, at the time of shipment, be free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain exceptions, our standard warranty extends for a period of two years. At the time revenue is recognized, we establish an accrual for estimated warranty expenses associated with our sales, recorded as a component of cost of revenues. In addition, we also offer cash discounts to customers for payments received by us within an agreed upon time, generally 10 days after shipment. We accrue reserves for cash discounts as a reduction to accounts receivable and a reduction to revenues, based on experience with each customer. Freight and handling costs are included in the cost of revenues and are recognized as period expenses during the period in which they are incurred. Inventories . We carry our inventories not related to an acquisition at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or market and record provisions for slow moving inventories based upon a regular analysis of inventory on hand compared to historical and projected end user demand. These provisions can influence our results of operations. For example, when demand falls for a given part, all or a portion of the related inventory is reserved, impacting our cost of revenues and gross profit. If demand recovers and the parts previously reserved are sold, we will generally recognize a higher than normal margin. However, the majority of product inventory that has been previously reserved is ultimately discarded. Although we do sell some products that have previously been written down, such sales have historically been relatively consistent on a quarterly basis and the related impact on our margins has not been material. Inventory acquired in the purchase of a business is stated at the lower of cost or market. Upon the acquisition, we estimate the fair value of the inventory as of the acquisition date. The methodology involves stepping up the value of acquired finished goods and work-in-process to expected sales value less variable costs to dispose. Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance . We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our remaining deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance with a charge to income tax expense. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to utilize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be released to income as a credit to income tax expense. We maintain a valuation allowance for our domestic deferred tax assets and most of our foreign deferred tax assets. Additionally, throughout 2009, 2010, and 2011, no incremental domestic deferred tax benefits were recognized. 45 Table of Contents Impairment of Long-Lived Assets . We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is assessed when the undiscounted expected cash flows derived for an asset are less than its carrying amount. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds its fair value and are recognized in operating results. We continually apply our best judgment when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of an impaired asset. The dynamic economic environment in which we operate and the resulting assumptions used to estimate future cash flows impact the outcome of our impairment tests. In recent years, most of our assets that have been impaired consist of assets that were ultimately abandoned, sold or otherwise disposed of due to cost reduction activities and the consolidation of our manufacturing facilities. In some instances, these assets have subsequently been sold for amounts higher than their impaired value. When material, these gains are recorded in the restructuring, asset impairments and other, net line item in our consolidated statement of operations and disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. Goodwill . We evaluate our goodwill for potential impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Historically, we were required to test goodwill using a two-step process. We now have the option to first assess qualitative factors prior to proceeding with the two-step quantitative evaluation process. The first step of the two-step quantitative evaluation in the goodwill impairment test, used to identify potential impairment, compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit containing our goodwill with the related carrying amount. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the reporting units goodwill is not considered to be impaired and the second step is unnecessary. The second step of the test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill, determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination, with the carrying amount of such goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We perform our annual impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of each year. We determine the fair value of each reporting unit using the income approach, which is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, using managements assumptions and forecasts as of the acquisition date. Our methodologies used for valuing goodwill have not changed. We have determined that our product families, which are components of our operating segments, constitute reporting units for purposes of allocating and testing goodwill. Because the product families are one level below the operating segments, they constitute individual businesses and our segment management regularly reviews the operating results of each product family. As of each acquisition date, all goodwill acquired was assigned to the product families that were expected to benefit from the synergies of the respective acquisition. The amount of goodwill assigned to each reporting unit was the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities allocated to the reporting unit as of the acquisition date. Our next annual test for impairment is expected to be performed on the first day of the fourth quarter of 2012; however, identification of a triggering event may result in the need for earlier reassessments of the recoverability of our goodwill and may result in material impairment charges in future periods. Defined Benefit Plans and related benefits . We maintain defined benefit pension plans covering certain of our foreign employees. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension costs and estimated withdrawal liabilities are calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations, assumed rate of return on pension plan assets and assumed rate of compensation increase for plan employees. All of these assumptions are based upon managements judgment, considering all known trends and uncertainties. Actual results that differ from these assumptions impact the expense recognition and cash funding requirements of our pension plans. Additionally, we have liabilities associated with our estimated portion of underfunded pension obligations relating to certain employees participating in the SANYO Electric or its affiliate multi-employer defined benefit pension plans, from which we intend to withdraw. 46 Table of Contents Contingencies . We are involved in a variety of legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Based on the available information, we evaluate the relevant range and likelihood of potential outcomes and we record the appropriate liability when the amount is deemed probable and estimable. Valuation of Stock Compensation . The fair value of each option grant is estimated as of the date of grant using a lattice-based option valuation model. The lattice model uses: 1) a constant volatility; 2) an employee exercise behavior model (based on an analysis of historical exercise behavior); and 3) the treasury yield curve to calculate the fair value of shares issued for each option grant. We continue to use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of shares issued under the 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.