Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, the risks discussed under the caption Risk Factors in Item 1A and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, we cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. A summary of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is provided below under Risk Factor Summary. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, investments, or other strategic transactions we may make. You should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. ii Risk Factor Summary We are subject to various risks that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The following is a summary of the principal factors that make investing in our securities risky and may cause our actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following is only a summary of the principal risks that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and should be read in conjunction with the more complete discussion of the risk factors we face, which are set forth in the section entitled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. in this report: We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. The adoption of the IEEE 802.16s wireless broadband standard by customers in our target critical infrastructure sectors is uncertain. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic partnerships with third parties such as Siemens Mobility as well as on our ability to establish a broad range of additional ecosystem relationships with leading global industrial vendors. While we have historically worked with electrical utilities, we are currently expanding into new vertical end markets such as water utilities, oil and gas and transportation, in which we have limited prior operating history. Failure to establish ourselves in these new markets can have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Failure to manage our planned growth could place a significant strain on our resources. If we fail to retain our existing customers or do not acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. Any outbreak or worsening of an outbreak of contagious diseases, or other adverse public health developments, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant dependence on a small number of customers, and the loss of such customers or a decrease in business conducted with such customers could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and our customers may cancel or change their product plans after we have expended substantial time and resources in the design of their products. If our products do not interoperate with our customers other systems, the purchase or deployment of our products and services may be delayed or cancelled. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology is uncertain. We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitable operations. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to remediate the material weakness and otherwise maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. We have limited trading activity and a result, the price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. iii PART I Item 1. Business. Corporate Overview of Ondas Holdings Inc. Ondas Holdings Inc. (the Company) was originally incorporated in Nevada on December 22, 2014 under the name of Zev Ventures Incorporated. On September 28, 2018, we consummated a reverse acquisition transaction to acquire a privately-held company, Ondas Networks Inc., and changed our name from Zev Ventures Incorporated to Ondas Holdings Inc. As a result, Ondas Networks Inc. (Ondas Networks) became our wholly owned subsidiary. We refer to this transaction as the Acquisition. In connection with the closing of the Acquisition, we discontinued the prior business of Zev Ventures as a reseller of sporting and concert tickets and our sole business became that of Ondas Networks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K) reports our business and financial results on a consolidated basis and therefore, the use of the words we, our, the Company and Ondas Holdings means Ondas Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries. Where necessary for clarification purposes, Ondas Holdings, Ondas Networks or Zev Ventures may be used independently. Corporate Overview of Ondas Networks Inc. Ondas Networks was originally incorporated in Delaware on February 16, 2006 under the name of Full Spectrum Inc. On August 10, 2018, the name was changed to Ondas Networks Inc. Ondas Networks provides wireless connectivity solutions enabling mission-critical Industrial Internet applications and services. We refer to these applications as the Mission-Critical Internet of Things (MC-IoT). The Companys wireless networking products are applicable to a wide range of MC-IoT applications, which are most often located at the very edge of large industrial networks. These applications require secure, real time connectivity with the ability to process large amounts of data at the edge of large industrial networks. Such applications are required in all of the major critical infrastructure markets, including rail, electric grids, drones, oil and gas, and public safety and government, where secure, reliable and fast operational decisions are required in order to improve efficiency and ensure a high degree of safety and security. We design, develop, manufacture, sell and support FullMAX, our patented, Software Defined Radio (SDR) platform for secure, licensed, private, wide-area broadband networks. Our customers install FullMAX systems in order to upgrade and expand their legacy wide-area network (WAN) infrastructure. Our MC-IoT intellectual property has been adopted by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the leading worldwide standards body in data networking protocols, and forms the core of the IEEE 802.16s standard. Because standards-based communications solutions are preferred by our mission-critical customers and ecosystem partners, Ondas has taken a leadership position in IEEE as it relates to wireless networking for industrial markets. As such, management believes this standards-based approach supports the adoption of the Companys technology across a burgeoning ecosystem of partners and end markets. Our FullMAX SDR platform is an important and timely upgrade solution for privately-owned and operated wireless WANs, leveraging Internet Protocol-based communications to provide more reliability and data capacity for our mission-critical infrastructure customers. Critical infrastructure markets throughout the globe have reached an inflection point where legacy serial and analog based protocols and network transport systems no longer meet industry needs. In addition to offering enhanced data throughput, FullMAX is an intelligent networking platform enabling the adoption of sophisticated operating systems and equipment supporting next-generation MC-IoT applications over wide field areas. These new MC-IoT applications and related equipment require more processing power at the edge of large industrial networks and the efficient utilization of network capacity and scarce bandwidth resources which can be supported by the Fog-computing capability integrated in our end-to-end network platform. Fog-computing utilizes management software to enable edge compute processing and data and application prioritization in the field enabling our customers more reliable, real-time operating control of these new, intelligent MC-IoT equipment and applications at the edge. 1 We sell our products and services globally through a direct sales force and value-added sales partners to critical infrastructure providers including major rail operators, commercial and industrial drone operators, electric and gas utilities, water and wastewater utilities, oil and gas producers and pipeline operators, and for other critical infrastructure applications in areas such as homeland security and defense, and transportation. We continue to develop our value-added reseller relationships which today include a major strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility for the development of new types of wireless connectivity for the North American Rail. In addition, Ondas and JVCKenwood, a global supplier of Land Mobile Radio (LMR) systems, have jointly responded to a request from the rail industry for the design and delivery of a next generation data and voice platform. We believe our Siemens partnership and our joint effort with JVCKenwood are indicative of the potential for additional Tier 1 partnerships in our other vertical markets including securing reseller relationships with major suppliers to the worldwide government and homeland security markets. These partnerships are being driven by the flexibility of our FullMAX software to support legacy industrial protocols (e.g. Push to Talk Voice, Dial-up Serial Data Communications, and Advanced Train Control System ATCS) while simultaneously operating our state of the art MC-IoT protocols. This dual and multi-mode software capability provides major industrial customers with a seamless migration path to advanced internet-protocol-based networks. Over time, these legacy functions, like Push to Talk Voice and ATCS, are transformed into just several of many new data applications we can support. Background The Internet of Things (IoT) is transforming the way businesses and industries function with a massive shift from on-premise locally executed software to cloud computing. IoT is applicable across all global consumer, enterprise, industrial and government markets. By storing and processing data using cloud technology, there is now an ability to access, analyze and utilize vast amounts of information and liberate operators from accessing data in limited amounts. Cloud computing has enabled the access of additional features on IoT devices such as smartphones, computers and laptops without the need for investing in additional computing power or memory. However, specific areas of IoT, particularly the mission-critical industrial markets, have additional requirements when compared to enterprise and consumer markets. With industrial markets, the bulk of the critical assets are dispersed over vast field area operations and varying geographical locations. This wide dispersion of assets shifts the emphasis from the centralized private Cloud to the network edge and Fog which requires reliance on edge computing and the processing of data in the field, closer to the source of the data generation. The primary benefit of Fog networks is to enable the execution of mission-critical functions and manage and operate intelligent field equipment and systems many of which require real-time decision-making. Edge computing is required for low-latency applications where real-time performance is critical for safety and efficient systems performance. In addition, processing data closer to the source improves reliability and offers security benefits. The Fog and edge computing advantages enabled by our FullMAX technology are now driving the adoption of our connectivity solutions by some of the largest industrial companies worldwide including the major North American freight rail operators. In a MC-IoT wide-area network, a Fog-computing architecture requires an intelligent communications system able to manage all network resources, including edge remotes, smart equipment and machinery and other network elements such as sensor networks. Importantly, advanced MC-IoT applications require highly reliable network performance over the air with customized Quality of Service (QoS) standards which are not available in legacy narrowband wireless networks. The intelligent communications system is coordinated via base stations which contain network management software algorithms designed to control critical operations and distribute bandwidth across multiple edge computing applications required by customers. The Fog-computing environment can be further enhanced by high-power edge remote radios with embedded computing power and software providing the ability to host MC-IoT software applications or to reliably interface with intelligent equipment and sensor networks deployed across the field of operations. The interplay between base stations and remote edge radios requires a robust software communications layer to ensure that network performance and operating data is properly communicated to the corporate cloud located in the network operations center. 2 For example, the North American freight rail operators are seeking to deploy new, on-locomotive and wayside MC-IoT technologies along the track in order to reliably enhance safety and improve efficiency and profitability of train operations. These rail operators currently operate antiquated legacy communications systems utilizing serial based narrowband wireless technologies for voice and data communications. These legacy wireless networks have limited data capacity and are unable to support the adoption of new, intelligent train control and management systems. In addition to data capacity challenges, rail operators need to reliably cover the vast and often remotely located rail track and related infrastructure which extends nationwide over 140,000 miles. The rail operators require a next-generation, robust broadband system with significantly increased data throughput capacity and Fog networking capability. A transition to integrated Fog-computing communications wireless systems will enable the rail operators to drive more intelligence to the edge of their operating environments enabling real time automation and better operator control of many critical operating systems related to train control, crossing safety, train and track integrity and drone operations. This upgrade cycle is being driven by a recent key event which occurred in May 2020 in which the Class 1 rail systems in the U.S. were awarded new nationwide greenfield wideband radio spectrum by the Federal Communications Committee (FCC). As part of the award, the rail operators are required, over the next three years, to vacate a series of legacy narrowband channels. The completion of this multiyear negotiation between the FCC and other licensed users is projected to generate a major network upgrade cycle for the rail industry. There are many other mission-critical industries across the globe operating private networks that are similarly constrained by their legacy narrowband wireless communications systems. The lack of bandwidth, appropriate software and integrated edge computing and Fog capability are a bottleneck for the adoption of next-generation MC-IoT applications and intelligent equipment that can serve to create more efficient, profitable, and safer operations. This can be seen in Land Mobile Radio (LMR) markets where legacy critical voice networks lack increasingly valuable data capacity and next generation networks such as FullMAX can provide voice over IP as a data application. Similarly, the adoption of smart grid technologies by electric utilities, well pump automation systems by oil producers and new navigation systems for commercial and industrial drones require new, robust wireless network platforms such as FullMAX that can also offer the capability of Fog-computing architectures. COVID-19 In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified in Wuhan, China, and has subsequently spread to other regions of the world, and has resulted in increased travel restrictions, business disruptions and emergency quarantine measures across the world including the United States. 3 The Companys business, financial condition and results of operations were impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic for the year ended December 31, 2020 as follows: sales and marketing efforts were disrupted as our business development team was unable to travel to visit customers and customers were unable to receive visitors for on-location meetings; field activity for testing and deploying our wireless systems was delayed due to the inability for our field service team to install and test equipment for our customers; supply chain disruptions led to component shortages and inefficiencies in and delays in producing and delivering equipment for certain purchase orders; and delays in fulfilling purchase orders reduced our cash flow from operations. In the first quarter of 2020, we reduced our business activity to critical operations only, and furloughed 80% of our workforce. Per orders issued by the Health Officer of the County of Santa Clara, our corporate offices and facilities were closed, except for functions related to the support of remote workers and product support related to the essential transportation sector. On May 13, 2020, we reopened our corporate offices and headquarters and as of December 31, 2020 we have no employees remaining on furlough. Of the 18 employees previously furloughed, 14 are currently employed by us. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted. The CARES Act is an approximately $2 trillion emergency economic stimulus package in response to the Coronavirus outbreak, which among other things contains numerous income tax provisions. Some of these tax provisions are expected to be effective retroactively for years ending before the date of enactment. The Company applied for, and received, funds under the Paycheck Protection Program in the amount of $666,091. The application for these funds requires the Company to, in good faith, certify that the current economic uncertainty made the loan request necessary to support operations of the Company. This certification further requires the Company to consider its current business activity and ability to access other sources of liquidity sufficient to support ongoing operations in a manner that is not significantly detrimental to the business. The receipt of these funds, and the forgiveness of the loan related to these funds, is dependent on the Company having initially qualified for the loan and qualifying for the forgiveness of such loan based on our future adherence to the forgiveness criteria. The Company is in discussion with the lender regarding the forgiveness of the loan, however no determination has been made at the time of the filing of this Form 10-K. The Company expects its business, financial condition and results of operations will be impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic during 2021, primarily due to the slowdown of customer activity during 2020 and 2021. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing and remains an unknown risk for the foreseeable future. The extent to which the coronavirus may impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus. As a result, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the full extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic on its future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Company were to experience any new impact to its operations or incur additional unanticipated costs and expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, such operational delays and unanticipated costs and expenses there could be a further adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations during 2021. Although COVID-19 has had an immediate near-term impact on our business operations, we also believe the one outcome of the pandemic will be to reinforce the need for more reliable private commercial and industrial communications. This can be seen specifically in the need for new Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) solutions including the safe command and control of drones as remote delivery method. In a recent filling at the FCC, the Drone Responders Public Safety Alliance stated, (the) current COVID-19 pandemic only emphasizes this need, as remote methods of commercial delivery will only become more essential to serve the public good. In light of the current COVID-19 crisis, UAS have the potential to deliver payloads of medical equipment and supplies. Our Strategy Our goal is to be a global leader in providing secure wireless connectivity solutions enabling high-bandwidth, mission-critical Industrial Internet applications and services. We intend to leverage our patented FullMAX technology and the IEEE 802.16s standard to achieve this goal. We have adopted a Deep and Wide marketing strategy designed to drive adoption of our mission-critical connectivity solutions into global critical infrastructure end markets. Our strategy is to deeply penetrate the Class 1 Freight Rail, government and aviation markets while continuing the expansion of our distribution and support capabilities alongside ecosystem partners such as Siemens into adjacent vertical end markets such as oil and gas, electric, gas and water utilities and military sectors. The key elements of our growth strategy include the following: Deliver on sales pipeline opportunities. Our marketing efforts have generated the potential for significant sales in our targeted end markets. Our sales activity in the North American Class 1 Railroad sector has resulted in several pilot programs for multiple railroad operators. Once we successfully complete field testing, we expect to work with our customers to design and develop a network deployment strategy which we expect to lead to purchase orders for equipment and services. We have similar field testing and initial system deployments planned in the UAS markets, security, electric and gas utilities, and oil and gas markets. 4 Secure additional marketing partnerships and OEM relationships. We service blue chip customers in critical infrastructure sectors with standards-based, mission-critical connectivity solutions. Those customers value the experience and resources provided by additional ecosystem partners that help support the growth of the MC-IoT end markets. As we have done with Siemens Mobility, we intend to pursue marketing and OEM partnership agreements with other Tier 1 global industrial and communications equipment suppliers that have extensive reach and domain expertise in our targeted end markets. These relationships will offer customers greater choice, expanded levels of after-market support and services, and the potential for greater product integration with intelligent equipment, and systems that are increasingly being deployed by our critical infrastructure customers. Develop new products and features to continuously improve our customer value. We introduced our Mercury remote radio in the first quarter of 2020 in order to address the expanding MC-IoT market for high volume, lower cost endpoint radios. Our Mercury radios are integrated into our existing FullMAX private network solutions, are compliant with IEEE 802.16s and can be utilized in both Tier 1 and Tier 2 network configurations. We will continue to enhance our SDR capabilities to aggregate non-contiguous channels with a focus on traditional licensed LMR frequency bands to provide IP data networking solutions in historically analog push-to-talk (PTT) bands. We will also work with ecosystem partners to develop dual-mode products to assist in the migration from legacy networks to our next-generation FullMAX platform. Expand our MC-IoT capabilities via partnerships, joint ventures, or acquisitions. In addition to internal investment and development, we will actively pursue external opportunities to enhance our product offerings and solutions for our critical infrastructure customers via joint ventures, partnerships, and acquisitions. This activity will be focused on companies with complementary technologies or product offerings or synergistic distribution strategies. In executing our go-to-market strategy, we intend to monetize our software-based intellectual property and grow revenue and cash flow with embedded FullMAX software sales, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) arrangements, IP royalties based on Ondas software and through additional services provided to customers and ecosystem partners. Customers deploy our connectivity and Fog-computing platform in private networks that designed for lifetimes of 10 15 years or even longer. Our FullMAX platform is software-defined and offers customers flexibility to expand capacity and evolve network utilization. Similarly, our ecosystem partners often integrate our FullMAX software and wireless capability into their own equipment and systems which their customers purchase and deploy are also designed for long lifetimes. As such, we believe our software solutions provide ongoing revenue opportunities and sales models both related to both connectivity value and edge computing capability. Customers and ecosystem partners will require ongoing FullMAX system and security enhancements and for us to design additional features which create opportunities for additional, recurring revenue and profit streams. Our monetization strategies include: Systems sales: Our FullMAX deployments are typically large, mission-critical wide-area networks deployed and privately operated by our industrial and government customers. These end-to-end system deployments involve sales consisting of both base stations and edge radio end points with embedded FullMAX software and network management software and tools. Software and hardware maintenance agreements: Our customers contract for extended software and hardware maintenance which provide them with critical ongoing support for their installed network. These SaaS contracts provide revenue to Ondas in the year following an initial installation. Software maintenance licenses entitle the customer to ongoing software and security upgrades as well as enabling the provision of additional system features. Similarly, hardware maintenance programs provide customers extended equipment warranty terms for an installed network. These SaaS maintenance arrangements allow our customers to continue to maintain a modern, flexible and upgradeable network over a long period of time. These agreements may extend for multiple years given the long average life of the installed and growing network. Licensing / Royalties: In certain system deployments, our ecosystem partners will choose to embed FullMAX software into their own hardware and software platforms providing Ondas with an ongoing per device multi-year revenue stream. Licensing is an effective way for an ecosystem partner to jumpstart customer activity. Alternatively, a partner may choose to develop software based on our intellectual property generating royalty revenue. Other Services: We provide ancillary services directly related to the sale of our wireless communications products which include wireless network design, systems engineering, radio frequency planning, software configuration, product training, installation, and onsite support. Furthermore, we also provide engineering and product development services to ecosystem partners who are interested in integrating their intelligent equipment with our FullMAX SDR platform and need our expertise to do so. The Siemens Partnership In April 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility, a separately managed company of Siemens AG (Siemens), to jointly develop wireless communications products for the North American Rail Industry based on Siemens Advanced Train Control System (ATCS) protocol and our MC-IoT platform. These dual-mode ATCS/MC-IoT radio systems will support Siemens extensive installed base of ATCS radios as well as offer Siemens customers the ability to support a host of new advanced rail applications utilizing our MC-IoT wireless system. These new applications, including Advanced Grade Crossing Activation and Monitoring, Wayside Inspection, Railcar Monitoring and support for next generation signaling and train control systems, are designed to increase railroad productivity, reduce costs and improve safety. The new ATCS-compatible products will be introduced in two phases, including a field-selectable ATCS or MC-IoT remote radio and a related MC-I0T base station, both which will be available by the end of the first quarter of 2021 available in the first quarter of 2021. Furthermore, Siemens has begun to market and sell Siemens-branded MC-IoT wireless systems based on our technology platforms. 5 The North American Rail Network is vast in scale, consisting of 140,000 miles of track, 25,000 locomotives, and 1.6 million railcars. Within this large footprint, we believe there are 200,000 highway crossings, with at least 65,000 of the crossings equipped with electronic systems today, a number which is expected to increase in the coming years. A significant portion of the communications infrastructure has been in operation for more than 20 years and now requires a technological upgrade to support new applications and increased capacity requirements. Our MC-IoT platform offers an excellent migration path for these applications. The Class I Railroads value the ability of the Ondas frequency-agnostic SDR architecture to enable a substantial capacity increase utilizing the railroads existing wireless infrastructure and dedicated FCC licensed radio frequencies, as well as the flexibility to adapt to and take advantage of future changes in spectrum availability. We believe the Siemens partnership validates our wireless connectivity solutions and will accelerate the adoption of our wireless technology in the North American Class I Railroad market. We believe Siemens has both the sales and marketing reach and support to drive our technology to wide scale acceptance. Siemens also brings Ondas access to the North American transit market where our technology has broad potential. In addition to our strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility, we expect to establish additional formal sales and marketing partnerships and OEM relationships with other leading Tier 1 vendors of industrial equipment in 2021. The Market for Our Products Our FullMAX system of Software Defined Radios, base stations, fixed and mobile edge radios and supporting technology is designed to enable highly secure and reliable Industrial-grade connectivity for truly mission-critical applications. We offer a range of products with different options for narrowband and broadband applications. Our SDR platforms offer unmatched flexibility with respect to the radio frequencies in which they operate (ranging from 70 MHz to 6 GHz) and channel size configurations (ranging from 12.5 kHz to 10 MHz). The global end markets for our MC-IoT solutions are established, large, and we believe, poised to grow rapidly given the key role connectivity will play in next generation IoT-type applications. Firms like Cisco Systems, Inc. and Gartner, Inc. say that there are billions of connected IoT devices installed throughout the economy; many of which are deployed for industrial applications. DellOro Group, Inc. estimates that Wide Area IoT spending, including low power WAN deployments with which we compete, will reach $33.0 billion for carriers and infrastructure vendors by 2022, growing approximately 2.5Xs from 2017. In many of our industrial end markets, we believe the adoption of low-cost edge computing and increased penetration of smart machinery is driving demand for next-generation networks for IoT applications such as those powered by FullMAX. Demand for edge computing solutions is growing rapidly and adopting edge computing applications can help our customers run their businesses more efficiently, profitably, and safely. According to MarketsandMarkets the market for global edge computing solutions is expected to grow over 34% per year from $3.6 billion in 2020 to $15.7 billion by 2025. Ondas is leveraging its industry expertise and FullMAX connectivity and Fog-computing platform to develop an enhanced range of products to capitalize on this expanding opportunity with the goal of becoming the leading supplier of private industrial networks. 6 According to research firm MarketsandMarkets, worldwide spending on communications by the electric utility sector is estimated to grow over 15% per year and is expected to reach $15.4 billion annually by 2021. This growth is being driven by distributed and renewable power generation projects and regulatory requirements for secure and reliable power generation and distribution as the industry deals with aging infrastructure. Market forecasts for oil and gas producers, water and wastewater utilities, homeland security, transportation and other critical infrastructure segments are similarly large. According to Market Reports World, the global LMR market is expected to reach $32.2 billion by 2027. In oil and gas, MarketsandMarkets forecasts that spending on oilfield communications will reach $4.5 billion by 2022, which would represent an annual growth of 7.9% from today. In addition, the U.S. Railroad sector is expected to spend over $10.0 billion in aggregate by 2020 to fully implement Positive Train Control (PTC) safety functions as required by Federal regulations according to the American Association of Railroads. We estimate the addressable market for our FullMAX solution with the North American Class 1 Railroads is over $1.5 billion. Our innovative, standards-based FullMAX system offers Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) operators and users a high-performing, cost-effective solution for reliable command and control of drones. The end market opportunity for UAS network solutions is large and rapidly growing. According to analysts at Barclays Capital, spending on commercial drones will rise more than 10-fold over five years from $4 billion to nearly $43 billion in 2024. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) raised its forecast in 2019 and now expects over 450,000 commercial drones flying in the U.S. by 2022, a four-fold increase from 2017. Improvements in drone navigation capability allowing for the safe command and control of industrial UAS beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) will be a key enabler driving the growth of the UAS market. Industrial UAS applications offer significant value to our core critical infrastructure markets and the economy at large, which supports the growth outlook for this market. In addition to broad use by government agencies and agriculture markets, utilities, railroads, and oil and gas industries are actively evaluating, or are in the process of incorporating, the extensive use of drones into their business operations. These critical infrastructure sectors can realize substantial savings and improved reliability in operations from deploying drones to monitor and inspect their remote infrastructure and assets. Our Products and Services Ondas was founded in 2006 to develop a new type of radio platform specifically to meet the evolving data needs of large industrial and government customers and markets. These markets are differentiated from consumer markets in that the customers assets are dispersed over very wide and remote geographies with specific challenges to installation, maintenance, and upgrades. These challenges led us to design a new type of software-based radio platform capable of supporting a long useful life to the network hardware. Instead of using low cost, off the shelf, dedicated communications chipsets (ASICs), we selected powerful programmable embedded general-purpose processors, DSPs, and FPGAs, all of which are software upgradable. Our software defined radio (SDR) architecture, with more than 12 years in development and supported by a team of 45 software engineers, allows us to customize almost any aspect of the air interface protocol, the key components of which are patented and have been incorporated into new IEEE wireless standards. The ability to constantly improve customer networks and hosted software applications with flexible, over-the-air software upgrade creates customer stickiness with high switching costs. FullMAX Software: Our FullMAX SDR platform is designed to enable highly secure and reliable industrial-grade connectivity for truly mission-critical applications. An end-to-end FullMAX network consists of connected wireless base stations, fixed and mobile edge radios and supporting technology all enabled by critical software developed and owned by Ondas. The target customers for our products operate in critical infrastructure sectors of the global economy. Private wireless networks are typically the preferred choice of these large industrial customers with business operations spanning large field areas. Private networks provide enhanced protection against cyber terrorism, as well as natural and man-made disasters, and the ability for the operator to maintain and control their desired quality of service. In many of our industrial end markets, the adoption of low-cost Edge computing and increased penetration of smart machinery and sensors is driving demand for higher bandwidth, next-generation networks for IoT applications such as those powered by FullMAX. These new technologies often require Fog-computing capabilities to maximize their utility to customers. The Fog-computing capability integrated in our end-to-end FullMAX SDR platform is valued by our customers and ecosystem partners as they seek to leverage the value of MC-IoT applications for improved safety, efficiency, and profitability. Our IEEE 802.16s compliant equipment is designed to optimize performance of unused or underutilized low frequency licensed radio spectrum and narrower channels. We do this through various patented software algorithms including via spectrum harvesting techniques which aggregate narrowband channels to create increased broadband network capacity. Our channel aggregation algorithms include the ability to aggregate hard to utilize, non-contiguous narrowband channels and are a hallmark feature of a FullMAX broadband system. Consequently, a FullMAX wireless network is significantly less expensive to build compared to traditional LTE and 5G networks given its ability to optimize the performance of lower cost, low frequency radio spectrum and provide much greater coverage and capacity. 7 The critical software algorithms powering our end-to-end FullMAX wireless SDR platform and related Fog-computing architecture have been developed by and are owned by Ondas. FullMAX is an intelligent networking system which integrates core network management systems with edge computing resources including computing hardware and MC-IoT software applications. In the MC-IoT Fog enabled by FullMAX, base stations are enabled with a highly configurable Quality of Service algorithms which coordinate the data traffic within the Fog for both the edge radio and the resident MC-IoT applications. The intelligent base stations control and manage all network resources including the Ondas edge remotes; dynamically allocating bandwidth, prioritizing data packets and managing edge applications. The intelligent software-managed base stations determine whether to process data at the edge, distribute data traffic across the Fog to other edge remote radios or to transport information to the corporate Cloud. Ondas Edge remotes have embedded compute capability and are able to host MC-IoT applications including those from third party vendors via virtualized software systems managed in docker / container architectures and can also manage data from intelligent equipment or sensor networks that interface with the edge remotes in the field. The Ondas software-managed edge remotes offer security via authentication, multi-layer encryption and virtual software firewalls which are requirements for mission-critical data networks. Our FullMAX Software Defined Radio platform: offers a dedicated private network for industrial applications which safeguards critical assets and information and protects against cyberattacks; has frequency agility with the capability to operate in any frequency between 70 MHz and 6 GHz; may be deployed in a wide variety of narrow and broadband channel sizes and can aggregate non-contiguous channels; and implements standard and enhanced versions of the IEEE 802.16 protocol, the new 802.16s amendment, and the planned 802.16t enhancements. 8 FullMAX System: FullMAX base stations and edge radios are deployed by our customers to create wide-area wireless communication networks. A FullMAX network provides end-to-end IP connectivity, allowing critical infrastructure providers to extend their secure corporate networks into the far reaches of their service territories. A FullMAX network also provides more data capacity allowing our customers to transition legacy applications such as critical Push-to-Talk Voice operating in legacy LMR networks to Voice over IP data networks which provide network capacity for other data requirements alongside voice. We refer to these networks as Land Mobile Data Radio (LMDR) systems. FullMAX radios can operate at high transmit power (up to 100 watts) at both the base station and edge remote sites providing fixed and mobile data connectivity up to 30 miles from the tower site. This results in up to 2,800 square miles of coverage from a single FullMAX tower compared with the 28 square miles typically supported by other 4G technologies and three-square miles by 5G technologies. This dramatically reduces the infrastructure cost of building and operating a private Fog network. For example, to cover a territory of over 10,000 square miles may require only four FullMAX towers compared with more than 350 typical 4G towers, depending on the topography of the region. Figure 1 9 Figure 2 We also provide a variety of services associated with the sale of our FullMAX products including network design, RF planning, product training and spectrum consulting. We provide customers with technical support, extended hardware warranties, and software. 10 TARGET MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS We are dedicated to promoting standards-based wireless connectivity solutions for our customers. Our FullMAX platform is compliant with the mission critical wireless Industrial Internet IEEE 802.16s. The specifications in the IEEE 802.16s standard are primarily based on our FullMAX technology, and many of our customers and industrial partners actively supported our technology during the IEEE standards-making process. In January 2020, a new working group was launched by the IEEE to establish IEEE 802.16t, a further evolution of this wireless standard. The IEEE 802.16t working group includes industry-leading trade organizations such as the Utilities Technology Council (UTC) and the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), as well as representation from world-leading transportation and oil and gas companies. We expect our technology to remain a prominent feature of this evolving standard. We believe that the current standard and its evolution have been instrumental in broadening the appeal of our FullMAX platform globally across all critical infrastructure markets. Since the publishing of IEEE 802.16s in November 2017, there has been a significant increase in interest from customers in end markets including oil and gas, water and wastewater, transportation, aviation and homeland security, as well as for the command and control of industrial drones. We believe we are currently the only supplier able to offer IEEE 802.16s compliant systems and are actively working with customers and industry partners to help develop and support a multi-vendor MC-IoT industry ecosystem for this standard. Our FullMAX system of wireless base stations, fixed and mobile remote radios and supporting technology is designed to enable highly secure and reliable industrial-grade connectivity for truly mission-critical applications. The target customers for our products operate in critical infrastructure sectors of the global economy. Private wireless networks are typically the preferred choice of these large industrial customers with business operations spanning large field areas. Private networks provide enhanced protection against cyber terrorism, as well as natural and man-made disasters, and the ability for the operator to maintain and control their desired quality of service. Our IEEE 802.16s compliant equipment is designed to optimize performance of unused or underutilized low frequency licensed radio spectrum and narrower channels. A FullMAX wireless network is significantly less expensive to build compared to traditional LTE and 5G networks given its ability to optimize the performance of lower cost radio spectrum (non-traditional LTE and 5G bands) and provide much greater coverage and capacity. In many of our industrial end markets, the adoption of low-cost edge computing and increased penetration of smart machinery and sensors is driving demand for higher bandwidth, next-generation networks for IoT applications such as those powered by FullMAX. 11 Effective April 24, 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility, Inc., a separately managed company of Siemens AG (Siemens), to jointly develop wireless communications products for the North American Rail Industry by integrating Siemens Advanced Train Control System (ATCS) protocol with our MC-IoT platform to create (i) a dual-mode 900 MHz over-the-air ATCS compatible, MC-IoT capable base station radio and (ii) a dual-purpose 900 MHz, over-the-air ATCS compatible, MC-IoT capable wayside ratio. These dual-mode ATCS/MC-IoT radio systems will support Siemens extensive installed base of ATCS radios and offer Siemens customers the ability to support a host of new advanced rail applications utilizing Ondas MC-IoT wireless system. These new applications, including Advanced Grade Crossing Activation and Monitoring, Wayside Inspection, Railcar Monitoring and support for next generation signaling and train control systems, are designed to increase railroad productivity, reduce costs and improve safety. The new ATCS-compatible products will be introduced in two phases, including a field-selectable ATCS or MC-IoT remote radio and a related MC-IOT base station, both of which will be available by the end of the first quarter of 2021. Siemens began to market and sell Siemens-branded MC-IoT wireless systems based on our technology platforms to the North American Rail industry in the second quarter 2020. Our FullMAX platform has been selected by Aura Network Systems (Aura) to be the connectivity backbone for the deployment of a nationwide wireless network for operators of UAS. Our technology was selected for its unique capabilities to operate with very high reliability and high throughput using narrowband licensed VHF frequencies. Our technology solves the need for robust command and control functionality which is required by the FAA to operate commercial, industrial and governmental drones beyond visual line of site (BVLOS). The network, once fully deployed, will be capable of supporting the simultaneous operation of tens of thousands of drones throughout US Airspace. We are currently working with Aura and expect to engage multiple Tier 1 ecosystem partners to fully commercialize the network. Organizations that have publicly announced their support for Auras network include Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) AeroVironment, Inc., AiRXOS Inc. (GE Aviation), the Commercial Drone Alliance, Crown Castle International Corp., the Edison Electric Institute, General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, Inc., the National Public Safety Telecommunications Council (NPSTC) and Xcel Energy Services Inc. Our FullMAX platform also addresses the increasing need for data capability in the private Land Mobile Radio (LMR) push-to-talk mission critical voice markets. Land mobile radio refers to the two-way mobile and handheld radio-based systems with the ability to offer seamless communication to field personnel working across industrial and governmental sectors. LMR systems have traditionally offered very limited data capacity (9.6 kbps) alongside voice-centric services. Our FullMAX platform offers the unique ability to utilize narrow and non-adjacent channels in traditional LMR radio spectrum bands with 300x or greater capacity creating a Land Mobile Data Radio (LMDR) platform. Our LMDR network platform simultaneously supports legacy voice services alongside the growing demand for data services. This advancement allows customers to deploy our FullMAX data platform where push-to-talk, critical voice services are provided as one of multiple data applications running on the network. LMR markets are seeing a growing demand for remote monitoring and control capabilities driven by the need for efficiencies (e.g., rail sensor bed networks) and new sensor-based networks to monitor climate conditions. We see the need to upgrade these networks across all industries and government users worldwide. In addition to selling our FullMAX solutions for dedicated private wide area networks, we offer private mission-critical wireless services to industrial and governmental customers in select regions of the United States. In June 2019, we acquired 2 MHz of licensed spectrum in the 700 MHz band including the State of Alaska and four strategic industrial counties bordering the Gulf of Mexico. These counties are gateways into the Gulf of Mexico for the industrial transport of goods (e.g., Liquid Natural Gas) and include the ports of Cameron Parish Port in Louisiana and Port Arthur and Port Lavaca in Texas. 12 Target Customers The target customers for our products operate in critical infrastructure sectors of the global economy. Private wireless networks are typically the preferred choice of these large industrial customers with business operations spanning large field areas. Private networks provide enhanced protection against cyber terrorism, as well as natural and man-made disasters, and the ability for the operator to maintain and control their desired quality of service. The existing public carrier networks based on LTE and 5G technology are designed for mobile consumer usage and are not architected for MC-IoT applications. Wi-Fi-based IoT offerings have similar shortcomings related to security, availability, and reliability, which are likewise unacceptable for mission-critical functions. Our FullMAX technology offers a next-generation upgrade path for existing private networks currently managed by our industrial customers. These networks will typically be deployed on the existing tower and backhaul infrastructure owned by our customers thereby reducing incremental infrastructure costs. We offer much faster data throughput and more efficient radio frequency utilization relative to existing private networks that are based largely on legacy, proprietary technologies. We believe the IEEE 802.16s standard, and its next iteration as 802.16t, are important catalysts for the MC-IoT upgrade cycle as our critical infrastructure customers increasingly prefer standards-based technology. Standards-based solutions offer a deeper ecosystem of suppliers resulting in more price and service competition and lower costs. The standard is relevant for all critical infrastructure providers with operations covering large field areas making the market potential sizeable enough to attract a deep ecosystem of hardware and software solutions providers along with ancillary service organizations to support our customers. We believe our FullMAX powered WANs serve the high end of the value chain as compared to mass-market, low-powered, narrowband solutions such as LoRa, Sigfox and NB-IoT technologies which are being offered by public carriers. Our customers require wide-area coverage with broadband speeds and low latency performance for operating environments managed over large field areas, which we can provide cost effectively. 13 Customer Activity We launched a business expansion plan in 2018 to leverage our world-class, standards based FullMAX platform and penetrate the large, fast-growing critical infrastructure end markets we target. We grew our dedicated sales resources to broaden our marketing efforts beyond the electric utility sector, which had historically been our primary end market. Since the second half of 2018, we have significantly increased customer engagement in the transportation, security, LMR and UAS end markets and our qualified pipeline has grown. A potential customer is included in our qualified pipeline after the potential customer expresses interest in our products and we have confirmed that the potential customer has an application for which our FullMAX platform would be well-suited. We have multiple, ongoing testing and pilot programs with BNSF (Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway) and CSX Corporation, two North American Class I freight railroad operators in addition to lab testing with other rail operators. There are seven Class I freight railroad operators in North America, all of which run multiple, frequency-specific networks for different applications. Our FullMAX platform has the flexibility to operate in all these frequency bands and will allow these customers the opportunity to better utilize their radio spectrum and add more high-value, data-intensive applications to their operations. Our initial field work with these rail customers has been for applications related to train control systems in the 900 MHz frequency band where the FCC has recently awarded our railroad customers new radio spectrum in connection with the Anterix 900 Report and Order. We are working with Siemens to introduce our FullMAX platform and intelligent Fog-computing capability in the form of a shared network to the Class 1 railroads in the 900 MHz frequency band. We expect multiple rail customers to participate in extensive lab and field work in connection with the planning for a commercial rollout beginning in 2021. We expect a 900 MHz network upgrade cycle across all Class I railroad systems over the next few years in order to comply with FCC license requirements and meet business needs related to safety and profitability. 14 We are also currently lab testing with rail customers in the 160 MHz land mobile radio (LMR) network, which is where the Class I railroads run their legacy critical voice LMR applications. We believe the rails are exploring options to upgrade their legacy 160 MHz network to better utilize the frequency band and add additional network capacity for new data requirements related to MC-IoT applications. The Class 1 railroads would like this next-generation 160 MHz network to offer critical voice over IP in addition to carrying new data traffic. We believe our FullMAX platform meets these new, next-generation network requirements for a Land Mobile Data Radio (LMDR) system. We are also jointly developing with Siemens an on-locomotive wireless system with FullMAX embedded in Siemens Head-of-Train (HOT) on-train systems. The HOT wireless system will utilize the Class 1 railroads existing 450 MHz band for on-train telemetry data applications. Siemens will have worldwide marketing rights to this HOT product with our embedded FullMAX technology. Our activity with the freight railroads has led to similar network opportunities amongst Class II railroad operators. We expect large commercial-scale orders from Class I railroads in 2021. We entered the aviation services market in late 2019 when we received a purchase order for base stations and remote radios from Aura, who plans to deploy a nationwide network for the command and control of commercial drones. We completed the fulfillment of that purchase order in July 2020 and Aura has completed the initial nationwide deployment to satisfy FCC license requirements. We are now working closely with Aura and ecosystem partners to fully commercialize an end-to-end system designed to develop an FAA-compliant industrial UAS navigation system. We received a purchase order for the next phase of commercialization in March 2021 and expect additional purchase orders in 2021 for development work related to system commercialization, testing equipment and demonstrations networks related to Aura servicing their end user customers. We continue to target sales pipeline opportunities with large electric utility and oil and gas customers in order to secure significant reference customers in these important end markets. We continued to support customers in the government security sector, including through deployment of a network supporting a mobile maritime border security installation in the Caribbean for Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI), a leading Israeli defense systems supplier. This radar-based security and intruder detection installation, integrated with a FullMAX network, can be replicated by sovereign nations globally. In addition to selling our FullMAX solutions for dedicated private wide area networks, we intend to offer mission-critical wireless services to industrial customers and governmental users in the form of a Managed Private Network in Alaska and four strategic industrial counties bordering the Gulf of Mexico. We are now offering mission-critical wireless connectivity and secured initial customers in these regions. In Alaska, we established mission-critical wireless service covering Anchorage and Fairbanks North Star, Alaskas two most populated boroughs with more than half the States approximate 740,000 population. In the Gulf of Mexico region, we established service and coverage in coastal counties including Cameron Parish in Louisiana, and Victoria, Calhoun and Jefferson Counties in Texas. In December 2018, we established a China-based subsidiary located in Chengdu, to market our products in China by targeting critical infrastructure industries. We explored the establishment of supply chain management and manufacturing operations for both local customers and for export. We expected to secure lower component costs via the further development of our supply chain in Asia for high volume production and planned to develop internal capabilities for product assembly and testing. However, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we revised our business strategy and withdrew our direct marketing and manufacturing efforts in China after determining that our customers, in particular those customers operating in the U.S., including electric utility and rail sectors, strongly preferred that our products be manufactured outside of China. Consequently, we have dissolved our China-affiliated subsidiary. FullMAX Network Architecture Sales and Marketing We generate sales leads and new customers through direct sales efforts, third party resellers, customer referrals, consultant referrals, trade show attendance, general marketing efforts and public relations. 15 After basic qualification of the prospect, the typical sales process starts with the customer supplying us with key information regarding their network assets including the location of their existing radio tower sites and the remote locations where they require data connectivity. We use this information to generate radio frequency coverage maps based on our FullMAX technology. This information is formatted into a proposal which is then reviewed with the customer to determine the suitability of our solution. The next step typically involves a customer paid onsite lab evaluation of our products during which the customer tests for basic functionality, security and application compatibility. This is typically followed by a live, real world outdoor test in which the customer purchases additional equipment to communicate with a representative number of utility infrastructure control points. Following the successful evaluation of the FullMAX product in a pilot network, the customer may choose, or be required, to complete a Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for Quotation (RFQ) process to address the requirements of their entire network. We have participated in many such processes and have developed an extensive library of material and processes for responding effectively and efficiently in a timely manner. If we are selected, we typically enter into contract negotiations with the customer based on our standard terms and condition of sale, software licensing agreement and warranty policy. The customer then generates a purchase order and we commence fulfillment of the order. Many purchase orders allow for or require phased delivery of products over several months or years. Many of our customers are conservative in their decision-making process. Sales cycles for new customers can vary from one to three years depending on the complexity of the customers network, whether the customer is subject to state regulations, and annual budget cycles. We believe that the sales cycle will shorten as we build our market presence with successful FullMAX deployments which will serve as reference customers and as the IEEE 802.16s multi-vendor ecosystem develops. Manufacturing, Availability and Dependence upon Suppliers We design the printed circuit boards and enclosures for our radios and maintain the bill of materials for all of the products we manufacturer. A Bill of Materials (BOM) is a list of the raw materials, sub-assemblies, intermediate assemblies, sub-components, parts and the quantities of each needed to manufacture an end product. The physical manufacturing of FullMAX circuit boards is outsourced to best-in-class industrial contract manufacturers. The contract manufacturer is responsible for sourcing the majority of components in the BOM, assembling the components onto the printed circuit boards and then delivering the final boards to us. Once at our facility, the boards are tested, then placed into enclosures and programmed with the appropriate software. The radios are then configured according to the requirement of the network and run through system level tests before being packaged and shipped to the customer. We have elected to outsource manufacturing in order to allow us to focus on designing, developing and selling our products. Furthermore, outsourced manufacturing allows us to leverage the economies of scale and expertise of specialized outsourced manufacturers, reduce manufacturing and supply chain risk and distribution costs. We maintain multiple contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to ensure competitive pricing and to reduce the risk from a single manufacturer. Customer Support We supply our customers with installation manuals, user guides and system documentation as well as onsite training customized to their specific needs. We are also capable of supporting installation and commissioning services either internally or, for extensive projects, through subcontracted third-party specialists. We provide remote support to our customers including radio configuration assistance, hardware and software troubleshooting, software updates and software enhancements. The original purchase price of all FullMAX radios includes a one-year hardware warranty and software maintenance plan. After one year, the customer may enter into an Annual Support Agreement with us in order to continue their hardware warranty and software maintenance. 16 Product Development We retain a dedicated team of software and hardware engineers that are responsible for developing and maintaining various aspects of our FullMAX technology. The core technology is based on state-of-the-art digital signal processing (DSP) chipsets, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and general-purpose processors. In wireless nomenclature, this concept is referred to as software defined radio (SDR) technology. We believe FullMAX is one of the most flexible SDRs for private WANs on the market today. It can be viewed in contrast to most other commercial wireless technologies (e.g., LTE, Wi-Fi, etc.) which are based on dedicated communications chipsets with very limited flexibility. We have purposely designed the technology with a wide range of flexibility given the current and evolving requirements of industrial field area data networks. Specifically, we capable of accommodate legacy protocols that predate Internet Protocol (IP) and Ethernet while also supporting some of the most advanced protocols in the world including multiprotocol label switching (MPLS). This flexibility offers industrial and governmental a smooth migration path to our advanced technology. Our flexible hardware and software radio architecture ensures we can support the entire range of protocols as our customers evolve their networks and applications. Our SDR technology also provides our customers with unmatched flexibility with respect to radio spectrum frequency bands and channel sizes. Our FullMAX radios work in frequency bands ranging from 70 MHz to 6 GHz and in channel sizes from 12.5 kHz to 10 MHz. This flexibility allows our customers to repurpose their existing underutilized spectrum assets or access new licensed radio spectrum at a lower cost. FullMAX radios have three major software components: (i) general embedded Linux-based software, (ii) DSP software, and (iii) FPGA software. FullMAX Base Stations and Remote radios have distinct software packages which combine these three components. Also, different computer software tools are used to develop the source code for each of the components. Hardware design and development is completed using standard computerized hardware design tools. Our product design process begins with detailed requirements supplied from current and prospective customers. These inputs then flow into our development roadmap, which is divided into six, 12 and 36-month plans. A majority of our ongoing development is software related which includes the following development process: (i) requirements specification, (ii) high level design, (iii) detailed design, (iv) coding, (v) unit test, (vi) integration tests, (vii) lab verification tests, and (viii) outdoor deployment verification. Our FullMAX technology is a single-tier (Tier 1) point-to-multi-point broadband wireless system. Our FullMAX platform is available via: (1) our Venus Base Station and Remote Radio hardware platform with transmit power up to four watts; (2) our Mars Base Station hardware platform with enhanced processing power and up to 100 watts of transmit power and (3) our Mercury Remote hardware platform for ubiquitous low cost, wide area sensor based networks and for Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS). Research & Development Our ability to develop state-of-the-art and cost-effective solutions relative to our competitors can only be achieved through our continued research and development efforts. Our research and development activities are headed by Menashe Shahar, our Chief Technology Officer, based in our Sunnyvale, California headquarters. Mr. Shahar is a co-founder of the Company and has over 30 years of telecommunications system development experience, including the design and implementation of broadband wireless data systems for top tier system integrators and service providers including WorldCom, Nortel and ADC. Mr. Shahar has been awarded multiple patents in the data communications industry and has been an active participant in major wireless standardization activities including IEEE 802.16. In addition to internal research and development efforts, we also engage third party consultants to assist us in our research and development activities. Our research and development team works closely with our customer support team and incorporates feedback from our customers into our product development plans to improve our products and address emerging market requirements. 17 Our research and development expenses were approximately $3,587,000 and approximately $5,416,000 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Intellectual Property We rely primarily on patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. As of this filing, we held a total of six issued patents in the U.S., seven pending patent applications in the U.S., and one international pending patent application. Our patents expire between 2030 and 2037, subject to any patent extensions that may be available for such patents. Our intellectual property centers around creating and maintaining robust, private, highly secure, broadband industrial wireless networks using our FullMAX radio technology for our mission critical customers networks. We view our patents as a key strategic advantage as the markets for industrial wireless connectivity grows and as these industries move to standardized solutions and will enable us to earn licensing fees and/or royalties for the use of our patents. We have a policy of requiring our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers and parties with which we do business to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure (NDAs) and assignment of invention agreements before disclosure of any of our confidential or proprietary information. Seasonality We do not believe that the industry in which we compete is subject to seasonal sales fluctuation; however, we do recognize that a typical sales cycle for new customers may take from one to three years depending on the complexity of their network and whether the customer is subject to state regulations and/or annual budget cycles. Dependence on a Single Customer Because we have only recently invested in our customer service and support organization, a small number of customers have accounted for a substantial amount of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2020, two customers accounted for approximately $1,012,000 and $1,005,000 of our revenue, or approximately 47% and 46%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2019, three customers accounted for approximately $144,000, $115,000 and $56,000 of our revenue, or approximately 45%, 36% and 18%, respectively. Competition We compete with alternatives to wireless technology, public cellular data networks and private wireless networking products from other manufactures. We believe that each of these competing solutions has core weaknesses when compared to FullMAX, as described below. Non-wireless technologies: Leased Phone Lines Analog lines are being retired by the phone companies and are not being replaced by new digital lines, especially where the grid assets are located. Power Line Carrier The transmit speeds supported by this technology are typically too low to meet the data rates of new applications. Furthermore, the service may not be available if there is an interruption in the grid (e.g. downed power lines); often the situation when communication is mission critical. Private Fiber Fiber is a point-to-point technology which has many points of failure (e.g. accidental or malicious fiber cuts) and security vulnerabilities (e.g. tapping). Underground fiber is cost prohibitive in most cases and above ground is susceptible to the same failures as downed power lines. 18 Alternate technologies: Satellite Technologies These technologies provide good coverage, but throughput is limited and latency is too high to support mission-critical applications for our customers. These technologies can be very costly as compared to our products and systems. Low-Power Wide Area Networks (LP-WANs) LP-WAN solutions such as LoRa, Sigfox and NB-IoT are architected with lower power, the purpose of which is to make these typically sensor-based networks lower-cost solutions. The low powered equipment means these systems have lower throughput and higher latency and are not reliable for mission-critical applications that require both monitoring and control functions. Public cellular data networks: Public networks are vulnerable to cyber security attacks from anywhere in the world including denial of service attacks; private networks can operate independent of the public internet. Based on current and planned FAA rules, UAVs will be off-net without public Internet access. Public networks are susceptible to prolonged outages during man-made and natural disasters (e.g. 9/11, Hurricane Sandy, etc.), exactly when utilities and mission critical entities require the greatest reliability. Public networks are typically designed for population coverage rather than the geographic areas required by critical infrastructure providers, which often include remote locations. Public networks are by definition oversubscribed, shared networks without the necessary prioritization service to support mission critical applications. Public networks typically use shared infrastructure including tower sites and long-haul fiber connections resulting in vulnerabilities at many points. Public networks are designed to support high capacity downloading and streaming applications with limited upload bandwidth available. Utilities typically require the reverse traffic flow, often uploading data from a large number of remote locations. Other private wireless products: Unlicensed Point to Multipoint Wireless (e.g. Wi-Fi) This equipment is very inexpensive to purchase but is subject to interference, has many security vulnerabilities, uses a contention-based protocol and transmits only over short range. Deploying Wi-Fi over wide areas is cost prohibitive. Private Licensed Narrowband Wireless Radios These networks can provide good coverage and range but are typically too slow and lack sufficient bandwidth to support new applications and the increased number of data connections required. Governmental Regulations Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations including: authorization from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for operation in various licensed frequency bands, FAA regulations unique to the navigation of commercial or industrial drones, customers licenses from the FCC, licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers, regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects, wage and hour regulations, regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements, building and electrical codes; and special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects. 19 We believe we have all the licenses materially required to conduct our operations, and we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. The operation of our manufactured products by our customers (network providers and service providers) in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions in a manner not in compliance with local law could result in fines, business disruption, or harm to our reputation. The changes to regulatory and technological requirements may also alter our product offerings, impacting our market share and business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, or could give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities. Employees As of March 8, 2021, we have 14 full-time employees and one part-time employee. Additionally, from time to time, we may hire temporary employees. We also utilize contractors to manufacture components, for certain research and development and for system deployment functions. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we are unaware of any union organizing efforts. We have never experienced a major work stoppage, strike or dispute. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Subsidiaries We have one wholly owned operating subsidiary, Ondas Networks Inc., a Delaware corporation. Also, we have one wholly-owned subsidiary, FS Partners (Cayman) Limited, a Cayman Islands limited liability company, and one majority owned subsidiaries, Full Spectrum Holding Limited, a Cayman Islands limited liability company. Both FS Partners (Cayman) Limited and Full Spectrum Holding Limited were formed for the purpose of beginning operations in China. As described above, we revised our business strategy and are in the process of dissolving our China-affiliated subsidiaries. Once this process is complete, we will have only one wholly owned subsidiary, Ondas Networks Inc. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as section 16 reports on Form 3, 4, or 5, are available free of charge on our website at http://www.ondas.com as soon as it is reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished with the SEC. Our Code of Business Conduct and the charters for the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors (Board) are also available on our website. The Code of Business Conduct and charters are also available in print to any shareholder upon request without charge. Requests for such documents should be directed to Eric Brock, Chief Executive Officer, at 61 Old South, #495, Nantucket, MA 02554. Our Internet website and the information contained on it or connected to it are not part of, or incorporated by, reference into this Form S-1. Our filings with the SEC are also available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov . 20 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before you invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as general economic and business risks, and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, which would cause you to lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to invest, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K including our financial statements and the related notes thereto. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $65 million and $52 million, respectively. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our equity securities and debt financings. We have never been profitable and do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future. We expect our expenses to increase significantly as we pursue our growth strategy. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we expect to continue incurring significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Any additional operating losses may have an adverse effect on our stockholders equity and the price of our common stock, and we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability. Additionally, our costs may increase in future periods and we may expend substantial financial and other resources on, among things, sales and marketing, the hiring of additional officers, employees, contractors and other service providers, and general administration, which may include a significant increase in legal and accounting expenses related to public company compliance, continued compliance and various regulations applicable to our business or arising from the growth and maturity of our company. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals, diversify our product and service offerings or continue our operations, and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The adoption of the IEEE 802.16s wireless broadband standard by customers in our target critical infrastructure sectors is uncertain. The IEEE 802.16s wireless broadband standard was published in October 2017. In addition, we are currently the only manufacturer of IEEE 802.16s compliant equipment. The benefit of the standard to buyers of our equipment are greater when there exists a large, deep market in terms of the number of customers. A large market benefits from the scale provided such that many vendors can compete on service, price and quality of solution driving improved value for customers. If a large end market does not develop and customers do not see the related benefits from the standard, we may not be able to grow our business. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic partnerships with third parties such as Siemens Mobility and Aura Network Systems, who are also customers, as well as on our ability to establish a broad range of additional ecosystem partner and customer relationships with leading global industrial vendors . In order to grow our business, we depend on partnerships with market leading technology and industrial companies such as Siemens Mobility and Aura Network Systems who are also customers of Ondas in order to accelerate the adoption of our wireless technology. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our partnership and customer relationships with third parties, including Siemens Mobility, or if our partnerships do not provide us the anticipated benefits, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results may suffer. In addition, adoption of our FullMAX wireless platform requires us to establish additional ecosystem relationships with leading global industrial vendors and customers. Even if we are successful in executing these partnerships and integrating with additional ecosystem vendors, we cannot assure you that these partnerships and relationships will result in increased adoption of our technology or increased revenue. While we have historically worked with electrical utilities, we are currently expanding into new vertical end markets such as water utilities, oil and gas and transportation, in which we have limited prior operating history. Failure to establish ourselves in these new markets can have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. We have historically worked with and geared our product offerings to the requirements of the electrical utilities and other suppliers of electrical power. We have in the past few years expanded our product design and development efforts to address the needs of other mission critical infrastructures, such as water utilities, oil and gas production and transportation. Achieving market acceptance in these new markets, of which no assurance can be provided, is critical to our success, and accordingly, failure to establish ourselves in these new markets may materially adversely affect our business or operating results. 21 Failure to manage our planned growth could place a significant strain on our resources. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan requires an effective plan for managing our future growth. We plan to increase the scope of our operations. Current and future expansion efforts will be expensive and may significantly strain our managerial and other resources and ability to manage working capital. To manage future growth effectively, we must manage expanded operations, integrate new personnel and maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls. If we do not manage growth properly, it could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations. We may be unsuccessful in achieving our organic growth strategies, which could limit our revenue growth or financial performance. Our ability to generate organic growth will be affected by our ability to, among other things: attract new customers; increase the number of products purchased from customers; maintain profitable gross margins in the sale and maintenance of our products; increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; achieve the estimated revenue we announced from new customer contracts; hire and retain qualified employees; expand the range of our products and services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; expand geographically, including internationally; and address the challenges presented by difficult and unpredictable global and regional economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate organic growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be attempted, realized or successful. If we fail to retain our existing customers or do not acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. We believe that our success is dependent on our ability to continue identifying and anticipating the needs of our customers, to retain our existing customers and to add new customers. For example, we launched a business expansion plan in 2018 to leverage our FullMAX platform and penetrate the large, critical infrastructure end markets we target and grew our dedicated sales resources to broaden our marketing efforts into new industries and sectors. As a result, we have significantly increased customer engagement in the transportation, security and UAS end markets, and we expect that our qualified customer pipeline will increase in other strategic end markets. However, as we become larger through organic growth, the growth rates for customer engagement, project volume and average spend per customer may slow, even if we continue to add customers on an absolute basis. In addition, the costs associated with customer retention may be substantially lower than costs associated with the acquisition of new customers. Therefore, our failure to retain existing customers, even if such losses are offset by an increase in revenue resulting from the acquisition of new customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, while a key part of our business strategy is to add customers in our existing geographic markets, we may expand our operations into new geographic markets. In doing so, we may incur losses or otherwise fail to enter new markets successfully. Our expansion into new markets may place us in unfamiliar and competitive environments and involve various risks, including the need to invest significant resources and the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved for several years or at all. 22 Any outbreak or worsening of an outbreak of contagious diseases, or other adverse public health developments, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Any outbreak or worsening of an outbreak of contagious diseases, or other adverse public health developments, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified in Wuhan, China, and has subsequently spread to other regions of the world, and has resulted in increased travel restrictions, business disruptions and emergency quarantine measures across the world including the United States. The Companys business, financial condition and results of operations were impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic during the year ended December 31, 2020 as follows: sales and marketing efforts were disrupted as our business development team was unable to travel to visit customers and customers were unable to receive visitors for on-location meetings; field activity for testing and deploying our wireless systems was delayed due to the inability for our field service team to install and test equipment for our customers; supply chain disruptions led to component shortages and inefficiencies in and delays in producing and delivering equipment for certain purchase orders; and Delays in fulfilling purchase orders reduced our cash flow from operations. In the first quarter of 2020, we reduced our business activity to critical operations only, and furloughed 80% of our workforce. Per orders issued by the Health Officer of the County of Santa Clara, our corporate offices and facilities were closed, except for functions related to the support of remote workers and product support related to the essential transportation sector. On May 13, 2020, we reopened our corporate office and facilities and as of December 31, 2020 we have no employees remaining on furlough. Of the 18 employees previously furloughed, 14 are currently employed by us. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted. The CARES Act is an approximately $2 trillion emergency economic stimulus package in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, which among other things contains numerous income tax provisions. Some of these tax provisions are expected to be effective retroactively for years ending before the date of enactment. The Company applied for, and received, funds under the Paycheck Protection Program in the amount of $666,091. The application for these funds requires the Company to, in good faith, certify that the current economic uncertainty made the loan request necessary to support operations of the Company. The Company is in discussion with the lender regarding the forgiveness of the loan, however no determination has been made at the time of the filing of this Form 10-K. The Company expects its business, financial condition and results of operations will be impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic during 2021, primarily due to the slowdown of customer activity during 2020 and 2021. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing and remains an unknown risk for the foreseeable future. The extent to which the coronavirus may impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus. As a result, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the full extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic on its future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Company were to experience any new impact to its operations or incur additional unanticipated costs and expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, such operational delays and unanticipated costs and expenses there could be a further adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations during 2021. We have significant dependence on a small number of customers, and the loss of such customers or a decrease in business conducted with such customers could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because we have only recently invested in our customer service and support organization, a small number of customers have accounted for a substantial amount of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2020, two customers accounted for approximately $1,012,000 and $1,005,000 of our revenue, or approximately 47% and 46%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2019, three customers accounted for approximately $144,000, $115,000 and $56,000 of our revenue, or approximately 45%, 36% and 18%, respectively. The loss of either of these 2020 customers or a decrease in the business conducted with such customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 Project performance delays or difficulties, including those caused by third parties, or certain contractual obligations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. Many projects involve challenging engineering, construction or installation phases that may occur over extended time periods. We may encounter difficulties as a result of delays or changes in designs, engineering information or materials provided by our customer or a third party, delays or difficulties in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customers failure to timely obtain permits or meet other regulatory requirements, weather-related delays and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. In addition, we contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. Any delay or failure by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project may be beyond our control and may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. Delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. Delays may also disrupt the final completion of our contracts as well as the corresponding recognition of revenues and expenses therefrom. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels; failure to meet any of our guarantees, schedules or performance requirements could also result in additional costs or penalties to us, including obligations to pay liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. In extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may be unable to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. Such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation, brand or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. Our contractors may fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or we may be unable to maintain these relationships, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third party contractors to complete manufacturing, certain research and development and deployment functions. There is a risk that we may have disputes with contractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the contractor, customer concerns about the contractor or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders. In addition, if any of our contractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, then our ability to fulfill our obligations may be jeopardized. In addition, the absence of qualified contractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Material delays or defaults in customer payments could leave us unable to cover expenditures related to such customers projects, including the payment of our subcontractors. Because of the nature of most of our contracts, we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures as they are incurred. In certain cases, these expenditures include paying our contractors and purchasing parts. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project or projects to which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain of our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers may work on projects that are inherently dangerous, and a failure to maintain a safe worksite could result in significant losses. Certain of our project sites can place our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers and others, including third parties, in difficult or dangerous environments, and may involve difficult and hard to reach terrain, high elevation, or locations near large or complex equipment, moving vehicles, high voltage or other safety hazards or dangerous processes. Safety is a primary focus of our business and maintaining a good reputation for safety is critical to our business. Many of our customers require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid on contracts. We maintain programs with the primary purpose of implementing effective health, safety and environmental procedures throughout our company. Maintaining such programs involves variable costs which may increase as governmental, regulatory and industry safety standards evolve, and any increase in such costs may materially affect or business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if we fail to implement appropriate safety procedures or if our procedures fail, our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers, including third parties, may suffer injuries. Failure to comply with such procedures, client contracts or applicable regulations, or the occurrence of such injuries, could subject us to material losses and liability and may adversely impact our ability to obtain projects in the future or to hire and retain talented officers, employees, contractors and other services providers, therefore materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 Warranty claims resulting from our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We generally warrant our manufactured products, including hardware and software, for a period of one year from the date of receipt of the product by the customer. After the first year, the customer can pay for extended hardware warranty and software maintenance and upgrades on an annual basis in advance. While costs that we have incurred historically under our warranty obligations have not been material, the costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty related legal proceedings, are variable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key officers, employees, contractors and other service providers or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend, in part, on the performance of Eric Brock, our Chief Executive Officer, Stewart Kantor, our President and Chief Financial Officer, and Menashe Shahar, the Chief Technology Officer of Ondas Networks, to operate and grow our business. The loss of any of Messrs. Brock, Kantor or Shahar could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategies. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Brock, Kantor and Shahar, we may be unable to retain them or replace any of them if we lose their services for any reason. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, product development, operations, sales, technical and other personnel in the United States and abroad. Even in todays economic climate, competition for these types of personnel is intense, particularly in the Silicon Valley. All of our employees, contractors and other service providers in the United States work for us on an at-will basis. Given the lengthy sales cycles with utilities and deployment periods of our networking platform and solutions, the loss of key personnel at any time could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and our customers may cancel or change their product plans after we have expended substantial time and resources in the design of their products. Many of our customers are conservative in their decision-making process. Sales cycles for new customers can vary from one to three years depending on the complexity of the customers network, whether the customer is subject to state regulations, and annual budget cycles. During this lengthy sales cycle, our potential customers may cancel or change their product plans. Customers may also discontinue products incorporating our devices at any time or they may choose to replace our products with lower cost semiconductors. In addition, we are working with leading customers in our target markets to define our future products. If customers cancel, reduce or delay product orders from us, or choose not to release products that incorporate our devices after we have spent substantial time and resources developing products or assisting customers with their product design, our revenue levels may be less than anticipated and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to provide bid bonds, performance bonds or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into significant long-term agreements. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, required to provide bid bonds or performance bonds to secure our performance under customer contracts or, in some cases, as a pre-requisite to submit a bid on a potential project. Our ability to obtain such bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise, reputation, brand and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the surety market and general and regional economic and regulatory conditions. Surety companies consider those factors in relation to the amount of our tangible net worth and other underwriting standards that may change from time to time. Surety companies may require that we collateralize a percentage of the bond with our cash or other form of credit enhancement. Events that affect surety markets generally may result in bonding becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. In addition, some of our utility customers also require collateral guarantees in the form of letters of credit to secure performance or to fund possible damages as the result of an event of default under our contracts with them. If we enter into significant long-term agreements that require the issuance of letters of credit, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding or letters of credit and, as a result, to bid or enter into significant long-term agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. 25 Substantially all our current products depend on the availability and are subject to the use of licensed radio frequencies regulated by the FCC in the United States. Substantially all of our current hardware products are designed to communicate wirelessly via licensed radio frequencies and therefore depend on the availability of adequate radio spectrum in order to operate. It is possible that the FCC or the U.S. Congress could adopt additional regulations or policies which are, or may change or modify current regulations or policies so that they are, harmful to our business or incompatible with our current or future product offerings, as well as products currently installed in the field. Additional regulations or policies or changes or modifications to current regulations or policies may require modification or replacement of our products, including products currently installed in the field, at significant, or even prohibitive, cost to us, and may require changes or modifications to, or termination of, ongoing or planned projects. Any of these developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to receive positive references from our existing customers. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to call on our current and past customers to provide positive references to new, potential customers. A material portion of our current pipeline activity is concentrated in the transportation and aviation sectors. Given our limited number of customers, the loss or dissatisfaction of any customer could substantially harm our brand and reputation, inhibit the market acceptance of our products and services, and impair our ability to attract new customers and maintain existing customers. Further, as we expand into new vertical and geographic end markets, references from existing customers could be similarly important. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products contain defects or otherwise fail to perform as expected, we could be liable for damages and incur unanticipated warranty, recall and other related expenses, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose market share and, as a result, our financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, materials, manufacture, deployment and/or use. If any of our products contain a defect, compatibility or interoperability issue or other error, we may have to devote significant time and resources to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert the attention of our management team and other relevant personnel from other important tasks. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could: be expensive; damage our reputation and relationships with utilities and other third-party vendors; result in the loss of business to competitors; and result in litigation against us. Costs associated with field replacement labor, hardware replacement, re-integration with third-party products, handling charges, correcting defects, errors and bugs, or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. Estimated future product warranty claims are based on the expected number of field failures over the warranty commitment period, the term of the product warranty period, and the costs for repair, replacement and other associated costs. Our warranty obligations are affected by product failure rates, claims levels, material usage and product re-integration and handling costs. 26 Because our products are relatively new and we do not yet have the benefit of long-term experience observing products performance in the field, our estimates of a products lifespan and incidence of claims may be inaccurate. Should actual product failure rates, claims levels, material usage, product re-integration and handling costs, defects, errors, bugs or other issues differ from the original estimates, we could end up incurring materially higher warranty or recall expenses than we anticipate. To date we have eliminated or limited the extent of liquidated damages and/or consequential losses from our agreements with customers. It is possible that we may not be able to achieve this in the future which could expose us to significant liabilities. Our technology, products and services have only been developed in the last several years and we have had only limited opportunities to deploy and assess their performance in the field at full scale. The current generation of our radio hardware and software has only been developed in the last several years and is continuing to evolve. Deploying and operating our technology is a complex endeavor and, until recently, had been done primarily by a small number of customers and primarily in the electric utility industry. As the size, complexity and scope of our deployments grow we have been able to test product performance at a greater scale and in a variety of new geographic settings and environmental conditions. As the number, size and complexity of our deployments grow and we deploy FullMAX systems for new applications in new critical infrastructure industries, we may encounter unforeseen operational, technical and other challenges, some of which could cause significant delays, trigger contractual penalties, result in unanticipated expenses, and/or damage to our reputation, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to respond to evolving technological changes, our products and services could become obsolete or less competitive. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by new and rapidly evolving technologies, standards, regulations, customer requirements, as well as frequent product introductions and revisions. Accordingly, our operating results depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new products and services, our ability to reduce production costs of our existing products. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products and services or acceptable new products and services that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly harmed. We depend on our ability to develop new products and to enhance and sustain the quality of existing products. Our growth and future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance and sustain the quality and marketability of our existing products. As such, we have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in technology development. In the future, we may not have the necessary capital, or access to capital on acceptable terms, to fund necessary levels of research and development. Even with adequate capital resources, we may nonetheless experience unforeseen problems in the development or performance of our technologies or products. In addition, we may not meet our product development schedules and, even if we do, we may not develop new products fast enough to provide sufficient differentiation from our competitors products, which may be more successful. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated business environment and changes in regulation could impose costs on us or make our products less economical. Our products and services and our utility customers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our products govern, among other things, the manner in which our products communicate, and the environmental impact and electrical reliability of our products. Additionally, our critical infrastructure customers are often regulated by national, state and/or local bodies, including public utility commissions, the Department of Energy, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the FCC, Federal Rail Association and other bodies. Prospective customers may be required to gain approval from any or all of these organizations prior to implementing our products and services, including specific permissions related to the cost recovery of these systems. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for implementation and operation of our products. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations applicable to us or our utility customers. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving regulations and requirements that may be adopted or imposed on us or our utility customers in the future. Such costs could make our products less economical and could impact our utility customers willingness to adopt our products, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Furthermore, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect critical infrastructure industries could have a potentially adverse effect on our customers interest or ability to implement our technologies. Many regulatory jurisdictions have implemented rules that provide financial incentives for the implementation of energy efficiency and demand response technologies, often by providing rebates or through the restructuring of utility rates. If these programs were to cease, or if they were restructured in a manner inconsistent with the capabilities enabled by our products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. If our products do not interoperate with our customers other systems, the purchase or deployment of our products and services may be delayed or cancelled. Our products are designed to interface with our customers other systems, each of which may have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of these products as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers systems, we may need to modify our products or services to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if our products and services do not interoperate with our customers systems, customers may seek to hold us liable, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be delayed or cancelled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation or brand, and seriously harm our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. Cyberattacks through security vulnerabilities could lead to disruption of business, reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Security vulnerabilities may arise from our hardware, software, employees, contractors or policies we have deployed, which may result in external parties gaining access to our networks, datacenters, cloud datacenters, corporate computers, manufacturing systems, and or access to accounts we have at our suppliers, vendors, and customers. They may gain access to our data or our users or customers data, or attack the networks causing denial of service or attempt to hold our data or systems in ransom. The vulnerability could be caused by inadequate account security practices such as failure to timely remove employee access when terminated. To mitigate these security issues, we have implemented measures throughout our organization, including firewalls, backups, encryption, employee information technology policies and user account policies. However, there can be no assurance these measures will be sufficient to avoid cyberattacks. If any of these types of security breaches were to occur and we were unable to protect sensitive data, our relationships with our business partners and customers could be materially damaged, our reputation could be materially harmed, and we could be exposed to a risk of litigation and possible significant liability. Further, if we fail to adequately maintain our infrastructure, we may have outages and data loss. Excessive outages may affect our ability to timely and efficiently deliver products to customers or develop new products and solutions. Such disruptions and data loss may adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders, patent our intellectual property or protect our source code, and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. 28 Unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, any personal information maintained by us or on our behalf, whether through breach of our systems, breach of the systems of our suppliers or vendors by an unauthorized party, or through employee or contractor error, theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If any such unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, such personal information was to occur, our operations could be seriously disrupted, and we could be subject to demands, claims and litigation by private parties, and investigations, related actions, and penalties by regulatory authorities. In addition, we could incur significant costs in notifying affected persons and entities and otherwise complying with the multitude of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, personal information. Finally, any perceived or actual unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, such information could harm our reputation, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain customers and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control certain aspects of the manufacture of our product, including the supply of key components used to build our products and we also depend on a limited number of manufacturers. Our future success will depend significantly on the availability of key components, and our ability to manufacture our products timely and cost-effectively, in sufficient volumes, and in accordance with quality standards. Our reliance on a small number of manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply including delays in transportation and delivery. Any manufacturing disruption by our usual manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. We may be unable to manage our relationships with our usual manufacturers effectively as they may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations or otherwise fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery. Similarly, to the extent that our usual manufacturers procure materials on our behalf, we may not benefit from any warranties received by our usual manufacturers from the suppliers or otherwise have recourse against the original supplier of the materials or even the manufacturer. In such circumstances, if the original supplier were to provide us or our usual manufacturers with faulty materials, we might not be able to recover the costs of such materials or be compensated for any damages that arise as a result of the inclusion of the faulty components in our products. One or more of our usual manufacturers may suffer an interruption in its business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or seek to terminate its relationship with us, or we may choose to change or add additional manufacturers for other reasons. Additionally, we do not have long-term supply agreements with our usual manufacturers. As a result, we may be unable to renew or extend our agreement on terms favorable to us, if at all. Although the manufacturing services required to manufacture and assemble our products may be readily available from a number of established manufacturers, it may be risky, time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new manufacturer relationships. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of complementary companies, products, services or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other companies, products, services or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. Potential acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: problems assimilating the acquired companies, products, services or technologies; issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions; diversion of managements attention from our existing business; risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; 29 increased legal and accounting costs relating to the acquisitions or compliance with regulatory matters; and unanticipated or undisclosed liabilities of any target. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired companies, products, services or technologies. Our potential inability to identify and complete such acquisitions or integrate any acquired products or technologies effectively may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time in the normal course of our business operations, we may become subject to litigation that may result in liability material to our financial condition as a whole or may negatively affect our operating results if changes to our business operations are required. The cost to defend such litigation may be significant and may require a significant diversion of our resources, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully defend against any such litigation regardless of particular merits. There also may be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could negatively affect customer perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. Insurance may not be available on favorable terms, at all, or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. A judgment or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of our operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology is uncertain. We rely primarily on patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. As of this filing, we held a total of six issued patents in the U.S., seven patent pending applications in the U.S., and one international pending patent application. Our patents expire between 2030 and 2037, subject to any patent extensions that may be available for such patents. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products and processes. Currently, several of our issued U.S. patents as well as various pending U.S. and foreign patent applications relate to our FullMAX systems, and are therefore important to the functionality of our products. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any jurisdiction, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all. The rights granted to us under our patents, and the rights we are seeking to have granted in our pending patent applications, may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. In addition, those rights could be opposed, contested or circumvented by our competitors, or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier or cheaper for our competitors to offer the same or similar products or technologies. Even if we are successful in receiving patent protection for certain products and processes, our competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes which are comparable or superior to ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights. Due to differences between foreign and U.S. patent laws, our patented intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Even if patents are granted outside the U.S., effective enforcement in those countries may not be available without significant cost and time expense or at all. We rely on our trademarks and trade names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. Third-parties may challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote additional resources to marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. 30 We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protectable by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers regarding our intellectual property and proprietary technology. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of those agreements, we may not be provided with meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our commercial partners, collaborators, officers, employees, contractors and other service providers use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in the related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other technologies not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If a competitor infringes upon one of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those patents, trademarks and other rights may be costly, difficult and time consuming. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the industry in which we operate is subject to rapid change and constant evolution and, consequently, patent positions in our industry can be uncertain. Even if successful, litigation to defend our patents and trademarks against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert managements attention from managing our business. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources or desire to defend our patents or trademarks against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third-parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and by litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements from companies like ours. To date we have received no claims with respect to our infringement of intellectual property or patents but, in the future, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be or may become contractually obligated to indemnify our utility customers or other third parties that use or resell our products in the event our products are alleged to infringe a third-partys intellectual property rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert managements attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Even if we are indemnified against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. Further, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to redesign affected products, delay affected product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing, selling or distributing the affected products. If we cannot or do not license the alleged infringed technology on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Additionally, our utility customers may not purchase our products if they are concerned that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights. This could reduce the market opportunity for the sale of our products and services. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented technology, trade secrets and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our officers, employees, contractors and other service providers and with parties with which we do business. These agreements may be breached, which breach may result in the misappropriation of such information, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our officers, employees, contractors, other service providers, or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use open source software in our products and services that may subject our products and services to general release or require us to re-engineer our products and services, which may cause harm to our business. We use open source software in connection with our products and services. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor the use of open source software in our products and services and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code to the related product or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative: others may be able to make devices that are the same as or similar to our remote radios but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own; we or any collaborators might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by the issued patents or pending patent applications that we own; we might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our inventions; others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; it is possible that our pending patent applications will not lead to issued patents; issued patents that we own may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges; our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the U.S. and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for certain research and development activities, as well as in countries where we do not have patent rights, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets; and we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. 32 Risks Related to our Financial Results We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitable operations. We intend to increase our operating expenses substantially in connection with the planned expansion of our business, establishment of our sales and marketing infrastructure, our ongoing research and development activities, and the commensurate development of our management and administrative functions , but there is no guarantee that we will succeed in these endeavors . We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitability, and we might not be able to do so. Even if we do generate significant sales, we might not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our sales grow more slowly than we expect, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If business growth falls short of expectations, we may need to obtain additional capital to fund our growth, operations, and obligations. We may require additional capital to fund our growth, operations, and obligations if our growth plan falls short or takes more time then we anticipate. As our business has grown, we have managed periods of tight liquidity by accessing capital from our stockholders and their affiliates. Our capital requirements will depend on several factors, including: our ability to enter into new agreements with customers or to extend the terms of our existing agreements with customers, and the terms of such agreements; the success of our sales efforts; our working capital requirements related to the costs of inventory and accounts receivable; costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; expenditures and investments to implement our business strategy; and the identification and successful completion of acquisitions. We may seek additional funds through equity or debt offerings and/or borrowings under additional notes payable, lines of credit or other sources. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, when needed. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, support the growth of our business or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly delayed or limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue is not predictable and recognition of a significant portion of it will be deferred into future periods. Once a customer decides to move forward with a large-scale deployment of our products and services, the timing of and our ability to recognize related revenue will depend on several factors, some of which may not be under our control. These factors include shipment schedules that may be delayed or subject to modification, the rate at which our utility customers choose to deploy our products in their network, customer acceptance of all or any part of our products and services, our contractual commitments to provide new or enhanced functionality at some point in the future, other contractual provisions such as liquidated damages, our suppliers ability to provide an adequate supply of components, the requirement to obtain regulatory approval, and our ability to deliver quality products according to expected schedules. In light of these factors, the application of complex revenue recognition rules to our products and services has required us to defer, and in the future will likely continue to require us to defer, a significant amount of revenue until undetermined future periods. It may be difficult to predict the amount of revenue that we will recognize in any given period and amounts recognized may fluctuate significantly from one period to the next. 33 Risks Related to our Common Stock We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to remediate the material weakness and otherwise maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. In connection with this annual report for the year ended December 31, 2020, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to lack of segregation of duties and accounting resources. Accordingly, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have certified that, based on their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, and other financial information included in this Form 10-K, fairly present in all material respects our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of, and for, the periods presented in this Form 10-K. If our steps are insufficient to successfully remediate the material weakness and otherwise establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our Common Stock could be materially and adversely affected. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure