Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General The following discussion and analysis provide information which our management believes to be relevant to an assessment and understanding of the results of operations and financial condition of Ondas Holdings Inc. (we or the Company). This discussion should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes included therein, which are included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Report). This information should also be read in conjunction with the information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 8, 2021, including the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included therein as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. For a description of factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, please refer to the below section of this Report titled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. The reported results will not necessarily reflect future results of operations or financial condition. Overview We provide wireless connectivity solutions enabling mission-critical Industrial Internet applications and services. We refer to these applications as the Mission-Critical Internet of Things (MC-IoT). Our wireless networking products are applicable to a wide range of MC-IoT applications, which are most often located at the very edge of large industrial networks. These applications require secure, real time connectivity with the ability to process large amounts of data at the edge of large industrial networks. Such applications are required in all of the major critical infrastructure markets, including rail, electric grids, drones, oil and gas, and public safety and government, where secure, reliable and fast operational decisions are required in order to improve efficiency and ensure a high degree of safety and security. We design, develop, manufacture, sell and support FullMAX, our patented, Software Defined Radio (SDR) platform for secure, licensed, private, wide-area broadband networks. Our customers install FullMAX systems in order to upgrade and expand their legacy wide-area network (WAN) infrastructure. Our MC-IoT intellectual property has been adopted by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the leading worldwide standards body in data networking protocols, and forms the core of the IEEE 802.16s standard. Because standards-based communications solutions are preferred by our mission-critical customers and ecosystem partners, Ondas has taken a leadership position in IEEE as it relates to wireless networking for industrial markets. As such, management believes this standards-based approach supports the adoption of the Companys technology across a burgeoning ecosystem of partners and end markets. Our FullMAX SDR platform is an important and timely upgrade solution for privately-owned and operated wireless WANs, leveraging Internet Protocol-based communications to provide more reliability and data capacity for our mission-critical infrastructure customers. Critical infrastructure markets throughout the globe have reached an inflection point where legacy serial and analog based protocols and network transport systems no longer meet industry needs. In addition to offering enhanced data throughput, FullMAX is an intelligent networking platform enabling the adoption of sophisticated operating systems and equipment supporting next-generation MC-IoT applications over wide field areas. These new MC-IoT applications and related equipment require more processing power at the edge of large industrial networks and the efficient utilization of network capacity and scarce bandwidth resources which can be supported by the Fog-computing capability integrated in our end-to-end network platform. Fog-computing utilizes management software to enable edge compute processing and data and application prioritization in the field enabling our customers more reliable, real-time operating control of these new, intelligent MC-IoT equipment and applications at the edge. We sell our products and services globally through a direct sales force and value-added sales partners to critical infrastructure providers including major rail operators, commercial and industrial drone operators, electric and gas utilities, water and wastewater utilities, oil and gas producers and pipeline operators, and for other critical infrastructure applications in areas such as homeland security and defense, and transportation. We continue to develop our value-added reseller relationships which today include a major strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility for the development of new types of wireless connectivity for the North American Rail. In addition, Ondas and JVCKenwood, a global supplier of Land Mobile Radio (LMR) systems, have jointly responded to a request from the rail industry for the design and delivery of a next generation data and voice platform. We believe our Siemens partnership and our joint effort with JVCKenwood are indicative of the potential for additional Tier 1 partnerships in our other vertical markets including securing reseller relationships with major suppliers to the worldwide government and homeland security markets. These partnerships are being driven by the flexibility of our FullMAX software to support legacy industrial protocols (e.g. Push to Talk Voice, Dial-up Serial Data Communications, and Advanced Train Control System ATCS) while simultaneously operating our state of the art MC-IoT protocols. This dual and multi-mode software capability provides major industrial customers with a seamless migration path to advanced internet-protocol-based networks. Over time, these legacy functions, like Push to Talk Voice and ATCS, are transformed into just several of many new data applications we can support. 26 Our business consists of a single segment of products and services, all of which are sold and provided in the United States and certain international markets. As described below, we are principally focused on penetrating several large opportunities across the transportation, aviation, and government markets to secure initial adoption of our FullMAX platform. The North American Rail Market and our Siemens Partnership The North American Rail Network is vast in scale, consisting of 140,000 miles of track, 25,000 locomotives, and 1.6 million railcars. Within this large footprint, we believe there are 200,000 highway crossings, with at least 65,000 of the crossings equipped with electronic systems today, a number which is expected to increase in the coming years. A significant portion of the communications infrastructure has been in operation for more than 20 years and now requires a technological upgrade to support new applications and increased capacity requirements. Our MC-IoT platform offers an excellent migration path for these applications. We believe the Class I Rails value the ability of Ondas frequency-agnostic SDR architecture to enable a substantial capacity increase utilizing the railroads existing wireless infrastructure and dedicated FCC licensed radio frequencies, as well as the flexibility to adapt to and take advantage of future changes in spectrum availability. The Class 1 Rails operate four separate nationwide networks, all of which are addressable by our FullMAX platform. Ondas is targeting the 900 MHz network for the initial adoption of its wireless platform by the Class 1 Rails, who were awarded greenfield spectrum in the 900 MHz band by the FCC in 2020, In April 2020, we entered a strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility (Siemens), to jointly develop wireless communications products for the North American Rail Industry based on Siemens Advanced Train Control System (ATCS) protocol and our MC-IoT platform. The dual-mode ATCS/MC-IoT radio system will support Siemens extensive installed base of ATCS radios as well as offer Siemens customers the ability to support a host of new advanced rail applications utilizing our MC-IoT wireless system. These new applications, including Advanced Grade Crossing Activation and Monitoring, Wayside Inspection, Railcar Monitoring and support for next generation signaling and train control systems, are designed to increase railroad productivity, reduce costs and improve safety. The new ATCS-compatible products will be introduced in two phases during Q2 2020: first with a release of a field-selectable ATCS or MC-IoT remote radio interoperable with existing Siemens ATCS base stations and then followed by dual-mode ATCS / MC-IoT base station. In addition to ATCS, Siemens has begun marketing and selling Siemens-branded MC-IoT wireless systems under Siemens brand name Airlink. In January of 2021, we signed a Letter of Intent (LOI) with Siemens to develop an additional new product for the worldwide Rail market. The joint development on this product has begun with an expected completion by end of 2021. We believe the Siemens partnership validates our wireless connectivity solutions and will accelerate the adoption of our wireless technology in the North American Class I Railroad market. We believe Siemens has both the sales and marketing reach and support to drive our technology to wide scale acceptance with international potential. Siemens also brings Ondas access to the North American transit market where our technology has broad potential. In addition to our strategic partnership with Siemens Mobility, we expect to establish additional formal sales and marketing partnerships and OEM relationships with other leading Tier 1 vendors of industrial equipment in 2021. UAS, Drones and AURA Network Systems In December 2019, Ondas received a purchase order for FullMAX base stations and remote radios from AURA Networks Systems (AURA), a privately held company deploying a nationwide network for the command and control of commercial drones. AURAs key differentiator is its exclusive ownership of dedicated, licensed Air-to-Ground frequencies. We and AURA believe that operators of large, fast-moving and high-flying drones, including those used for inspection and security applications as well as those for the Urban Air Mobility market (also known as flying cars), will require a secure command and control network like that planned by AURA. This command and control (C2) network will be designed to meet FAA requirements in order to fly long distances beyond visual line of site (BVLOS) of a drone operator. In July 2020, we completed delivery of AURAs first purchase order for the ground infrastructure. AURA has now installed its initial nationwide infrastructure based on our FullMAX technology in order to satisfy their FCC license requirements. In January 2021, AURA achieved another major milestone with approval from the FCC to use their frequencies for UAS / Drone operation. Based on this approval and other advances in the network, AURA placed a new purchase order in Q1 2021 for continued system development related to the optimization of FullMAX base station and remote radio equipment for customer testing and demonstration networks We are currently fulfilling the most recent order with a targeted completion of June 2021. We expect additional purchase orders in 2021 for development work related to further system commercialization, testing and customer demonstrations with planned commercialization to follow. We also expect AURA to place orders for testing equipment and demonstration network kits on behalf of its UAS customers. 27 Additional Critical Markets In the coming quarters we expect to launch additional initiatives to take our MC-IoT connectivity and ecosystem partnering strategy into other critical infrastructure markets. As evidence of this, in February 2021, we announced a new partnership with Rogue Industries to target opportunities in US Government and DoD markets. Rogue is an agile, focused marketing organization with significant expertise in bringing new technologies to these critical markets along with significant governmental procurement expertise. This expertise would otherwise require significant expense and time for Ondas to develop internally. Our agreement with Rogue is another example of Ondas leveraging what we refer to our Ecosystem Flywheel with our capital-light business model. COVID-19 In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified in Wuhan, China, and has subsequently spread to other regions of the world, and has resulted in increased travel restrictions, business disruptions and emergency quarantine measures across the world including the United States. The Companys business, financial condition and results of operations were impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as follows: sales and marketing efforts were disrupted as our business development team was unable to travel to visit customers and customers were unable to receive visitors for on-location meetings; field activity for testing and deploying our wireless systems was delayed due to the inability for our field service team to install and test equipment for our customers. In the first quarter of 2020, we reduced our business activity to critical operations only, and furloughed 80% of our workforce. Per orders issued by the Health Officer of the County of Santa Clara, our corporate offices and facilities were closed, except for functions related to the support of remote workers and product support related to the essential transportation sector. On May 13, 2020, we reopened our corporate offices and headquarters and as of December 31, 2020 we had no employees remaining on furlough. Of the 18 employees previously furloughed, 14 are currently employed by us. The Company expects its business, financial condition and results of operations will be impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic during 2021, primarily due to the slowdown of customer activity during 2020 and 2021. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing and remains an unknown risk for the foreseeable future. The extent to which the coronavirus may impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus. As a result, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the full extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic on its future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Company were to experience any new impact to its operations or incur additional unanticipated costs and expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, such operational delays and unanticipated costs and expenses there could be a further adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations during 2021. Although COVID-19 has had an immediate near-term impact on our business operations, we also believe the one outcome of the pandemic will be to reinforce the need for more reliable private commercial and industrial communications. This can be seen specifically in the need for new Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) solutions including the safe command and control of drones as remote delivery method. In a recent filling at the FCC, the Drone Responders Public Safety Alliance stated, (the) current COVID-19 pandemic only emphasizes this need, as remote methods of commercial delivery will only become more essential to serve the public good. In light of the current COVID-19 crisis, UAS have the potential to deliver payloads of medical equipment and supplies. 28 American Robotics Transaction Merger Agreement On May 17, 2021, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Agreement ) with Drone Merger Sub I Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ( Merger Sub I ), Drone Merger Sub II Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ( Merger Sub II and, together with Merger Sub I, the Merger Subs ), American Robotics, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( American Robotics ), and Reese Mozer, solely in his capacity as the representative of American Robotics Stockholders (as defined in the Agreement). The Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement, American Robotics will merge with and into Merger Sub I ( Merger I ), with American Robotics as the surviving entity, and American Robotics will then subsequently and immediately merge with and into Merger Sub II ( Merger II and, together with Merger I, the Mergers ), with Merger Sub II continuing as the surviving entity and as a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Mergers are subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by the Companys stockholders. The transaction, referred to herein as the American Robotics Transaction, is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021. The Agreement provides that the Company will acquire American Robotics in exchange for (a) cash consideration in an amount equal to (i) $7,500,000, less certain transaction expenses as described in the Agreement (the Cash Consideration ); (b) 6,750,000 validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Companys common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, as such number may be adjusted by the terms of the Agreement; (c) warrants, in the form of Exhibit E of the Agreement, exercisable for 1,875,000 shares of the Companys common stock, $0.0001 par value per share (each a Warrant), as such number may be adjusted pursuant to the terms of the Agreement; and (d) the cash released to the Company Stockholders from the PPP Loan Escrow Amount (as defined in the Agreement) (if any). Each Warrant entitles the holder to purchase a number of shares of common stock of the Company at a price equal to the average of the high and low prices of one share of common stock as reported on Nasdaq on the trading day immediately preceding the closing date of the Mergers. Each Warrant shall be exercisable in three equal annual installments commencing on the one year anniversary of the closing date of the Mergers and shall have a term of ten years. If American Robotics PPP loans are not forgiven by the U.S. Small Business Administration (the SBA ) prior to the closing of the Mergers, a portion of the Cash Consideration equaling Indebtedness owed by American Robotics on either of its PPP loans plus an amount equal to the amount of interest that would have accrued on such PPP loans as of their maturity dates, will be held in escrow with American Robotics PPP lender. If an escrow account is established to hold the PPP Loan Escrow Amount at the closing, such amount or a portion thereof, as applicable, will be distributed as merger consideration to American Robotics Stockholders upon a determination by the SBA that one or both of the PPP loans are forgivable under the CARES Act. Each of the Company, the Merger Subs, and American Robotics has provided customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Agreement. The completion of the Mergers is subject to various closing conditions, including (a) the requisite regulatory approvals being obtained; (b) the absence of any applicable order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) in effect which prohibits the consummation of the Mergers; (c) the absence of any law of any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the consummation of the Mergers; (d) American Robotics obtaining the Requisite Company Vote (as defined in the Agreement); and (e) the Company obtaining stockholder approval of the issuance of securities in the Mergers. The Agreement contains customary termination rights for both the Company and American Robotics. Both the Company and American Robotics have the right to terminate the Agreement if the Closing does not occur on or before September 30, 2021. Also on the closing date of the Mergers, the Company expects to enter into employment agreements and issue up to 1,375,000 restricted stock units under the Companys incentive stock plan to key members of American Robotics management. Lock-Up and Registration Rights Agreement In connection with the Mergers, on May 17, 2021, the Company entered into a lock-up and registration rights agreement, by and among the Company and the directors and officers of American Robotics (the Registration Rights Agreement ). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement (i) the Company agreed to file a resale registration statement for the Registrable Securities (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) no later than 90 days following the closing of the Mergers, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to become effective as promptly as practicable following such filing, (ii) the directors and officers and other American Robotics stockholders who sign a joinder to such agreement were granted certain piggyback registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the closing of the Mergers, and (iii) the directors and officers agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, not to sell, transfer or dispose of any Company common stock for a period of 180 days from the closing of the Mergers. Promissory Note On April 22, 2021, the Company made a loan to American Robotics in the aggregate amount of $2.0 million. The note carries interest at a rate of 2% per annum. The principal and any accrued and unpaid interest shall be due on April 22, 2022. 29 Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to three months ended March 31, 2020 Three Months Ended March 31, Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) Revenue $ 1,164,764 $ 200,198 $ 964,566 Cost of goods sold 555,350 181,092 374,258 Gross profit 609,414 19,106 590,308 Operating expenses: General and administrative 2,408,854 908,587 1,500,267 Sales and marketing 187,372 549,018 (361,646 ) Research and development 894,576 892,929 1,647 Total operating expense 3,490,802 2,350,534 1,140,268 Operating loss (2,881,388 ) (2,331,428 ) 549,960 Other income (expense) (256,731 ) (475,857 ) (219,126 ) Net loss (3,138,119 ) (2,807,285 ) 330,834 Revenues Our revenues were $1,164,764 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $200,198 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2021 included $17,600 for product, $8,210 for maintenance, service and support and $1,138,140 for development agreements with Siemens Mobility and AURA Networks. Revenues during the same period in 2020 included $15,272 for products, $2,764 for maintenance/service contracts and $182,162 for development agreements. Cost of goods sold Our cost of sales was $555,350 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $181,092 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in cost of sales was primarily a result of costs related to the development agreements. Gross profit Our gross profit increased by $590,308 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 based on the changes in revenues and costs of sales as discussed above. Gross margin for the periods in 2021 and 2020 was 52% and 10%, respectively. This increase in gross margin is a direct result of the new development agreements. Operating Expenses Our principal operating costs include the following items as a percentage of total expense. Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Human resource costs, including benefits 44.0 % 52.6 % Travel and entertainment 0.1 % 5.9 % Other general and administration costs: Professional fees and consulting expenses 35.6 % 11.6 % Other expense 15.2 % 15.7 % Depreciation and amortization 1.1 % 0.3 % Other research and deployment costs, excluding human resources and travel and entertainment 3.9 % 3.3 % Other sales and marketing costs, excluding human resources and travel and entertainment 0.1 % 10.6 % 30 Operating expenses increased by $1,140,268, or 49% as a result of the following items: (000s) Human resource costs, including benefits $ 725 Travel and entertainment (62 ) Other general and administration costs: Professional fees and consulting costs 298 Other expense 230 Depreciation and amortization 13 Other research and deployment costs, excluding human resources and travel and entertainment (23 ) Other sales and marketing costs, excluding human resources and travel and entertainment (41 ) $ 1,140 The increase in operating expenses was primarily as a result of higher stock-based compensation of $1,348,462 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Operating Loss As a result of the foregoing, our operating loss increased by $549,960, or 24%, to $2,881,388 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared with $2,331,428 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Operating loss increased primarily as a result of higher stock-based compensation of $1,348,462 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net decreased by $219,126, or 46%, to $256,731 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared with $475,857 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, we reported a decrease in interest expense of approximately $262,375 partially offset by a loss recognized on abandoned patent applications. Net Loss As a result of the net effects of the foregoing, net loss increased by $330,834, or 12%, to $3,138,119 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared with $2,807,285 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Net loss per share of common stock, basic and diluted, was $(0.12) for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared with approximately $(0.14) for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Summary of (Uses) and Sources of Cash Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,066,199 ) $ (1,973,754 ) Net cash used in investing activities (148,281 ) (2,393 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,179,934 - Decrease in cash (2,034,546 ) (1,976,147 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 26,060,733 2,153,028 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 24,026,187 $ 176,881 The principal use of cash in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was to fund the Companys current expenses primarily related to both sales and marketing and research and development activities necessary to allow us to service and support customers. The increase in cash flows used in operating activities of approximately $1,100,000 was primarily due to a reduction in payables and accruals. Cash flows used in investing activities increased by $145,888 primarily due to purchase of lab equipment and a security deposit on our lease renewal in Sunnyvale, CA. The increase in cash provided by financing activities of $1,179,934 was due to the exercise of warrants of $1,279,892 partially offset by payments made for deferred offering costs. 31 For a summary of our outstanding Secured Promissory Notes and Long-Term Notes Payable and, see NOTES 7 and 8 in the accompanying Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred losses since inception and have funded our operations primarily through debt and the sale of capital stock. As of March 31, 2021, we had a stockholders equity of approximately $14,709,000. At March 31, 2021, we had short-term and long-term borrowings outstanding of approximately $7,169,000 and $862,000, respectively. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash of approximately $ $24,026,000 and working capital of approximately $14,860,000. In December 2020, the Company completed a registered public offering of its common stock, generating net proceeds of approximately $31,254,000. In addition, we realized net proceeds of approximately $1,300,000 from the exercise of warrants in the first quarter of 2021. We believe the funds raised in the December 2020 equity offering, in addition to growth in revenue and profitability expected as the Company executes its business plan, will fund its operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance date of these financial statements. As described above, on May 17, 2021, we entered into an definitive agreement to acquire American Robotics. The purchase price will be funded via a mixture of $7.5 million of cash and equity securities. The American Robotics Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by the Companys stockholders. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including progress with developing, manufacturing and marketing our technologies, the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other proprietary rights, our ability to establish collaborative arrangements, marketing activities and competing technological and market developments, including regulatory changes and overall economic conditions in our target markets. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability requires us to successfully market and secure purchase orders for our products from customers currently identified in our sales pipeline as well as new customers. We also will be required to efficiently manufacturer and deliver equipment on those purchase orders. These activities, including our planned research and development efforts, will require significant uses of working capital. There can be no assurances that we will generate revenue and cash flow as expected in our current business plan. We may seek additional funds through equity or debt offerings and/or borrowings under additional notes payable, lines of credit or other sources. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, when needed. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, support the growth of our business or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly delayed or limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations We are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 229.10(f)(1) and are not required to provide information under this item. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time and under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. Information concerning our critical accounting policies with respect to these items is available in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on March 8, 2021. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting polies since the filing of the Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as summarized in NOTE 2 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. We do not expect that the adoption of any recent accounting pronouncements will have a material impact on our accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. 32 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This quarterly report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act, that relate to future events or to our future operations or financial performance. Any forward-looking statement involves known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements include statements, other than statements of historical fact, about, among other things: our plans to further develop our FullMAX system of wireless base stations; our plans to further develop remote radios; the adoption by our target industries of the new IEEE 802.16s standard for private cellular networks; our future development priorities; our estimates regarding the size of our potential target markets; our expectations about the impact of new accounting standards; our future operations, financial position, revenues, costs, expenses, uses of cash, capital requirements, our need for additional financing or the period for which our existing cash resources will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements; or our plans to acquire American Robotics; our strategies, prospects, plans, expectations, forecasts or objectives. Words such as, but not limited to, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, forecast, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, project, targets, likely, will, would, could, should, continue, scheduled and similar expressions or phrases, or the negative of those expressions or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Although we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement contained in this report, we caution you that these statements are based on our estimates or projections of the future that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, level of activity, performance, experience or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement. Actual results, level of activity, performance, experience or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement as a result of various important factors, including our critical accounting policies and risks and uncertainties relating, among other things, to: our ability to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all; our ability to repay our indebtedness; the accuracy of our estimates regarding expenses, costs, future revenues, uses of cash and capital requirements; the market acceptance of our wireless connection products and the IEEE 802.16s standard and IEEE 802.16t standard; our ability to develop future generations of our current products; our ability to generate significant revenues and achieve profitability; our ability to successfully commercialize our current and future products, including their rate and degree of market acceptance; our ability to attract and retain key scientific or management personnel and to expand our management team; our ability to establish licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements on favorable terms and our ability to attract collaborators with development, regulatory and commercialization expertise; our ability to manage the growth of our business; the success of our strategic partnerships with third parties; our ability to complete the American Robotics acquisition; expenditures not resulting in commercially successful products; our outreach to global markets; our commercialization, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and strategy; our ability to expand, protect and maintain our intellectual property position; the success of competing third-party products; our ability to fully remediate our identified internal control material weaknesses; regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and our ability to comply with regulatory requirements relating to our business, and the costs of compliance with those requirements, including those on data privacy and security. 33