ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Report beginning on page F-1. The results shown herein are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future periods. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Significant Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share-based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Emerging Growth Company We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. As a result, we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. For so long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to: have an auditor report on our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (i.e., an auditor discussion and analysis); 4 submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholder advisory votes, such as say-on-pay and say-on-frequency; and disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. Our financial statements may therefore not be comparable to those of companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we become a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which would occur if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three year period. Results of Operations Our results of operations are presented below: Results of Operations for the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2016 compared to the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2015. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 we incurred a net loss of $34,580, compared to a net loss of $19,775 during the same period in fiscal December 31, 2015. The increase in our net loss during the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to increased General and Administrative Expenses and operating costs relating to salaries and other general and administrative expenses. Our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $27,671, compared to operating expenses of $18,257 during the same period in fiscal December 31, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016 we had $2,382 in cash and $5,660 in total assets, and $60,503 in total liabilities as compared to $5,174 in cash, and $8,040 in total assets, and $28,303 in total liabilities as of December 31, 2015. We are dependent on our revenues for cash flow, as we have minimized cash flow requirements through equity or debt financing. However, as we intend to expand operations, it is likely that we will require cash flow from financing in the future which could affect our ability to become cash flow positive. For the year ending December 31, 2016 we used net cash of $28,992 in operating activities, compared to net cash used of $20,641 in operating activities during the same period in fiscal December 31, 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash of $26,200 was provided by financing activities compared to net cash of $24,315 during the same period in fiscal December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to stockholders. 5 Inflation The amounts presented in the financial statements do not provide for the effect of inflation on our operations or financial position. The net operating losses shown would be greater than reported if the effects of inflation were reflected either by charging operations with amounts that represent replacement costs or by using other inflation adjustments.