Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, the risks discussed under the caption Risk Factors in Item 1A and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions, and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, we cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. A summary of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is provided below under Risk Factor Summary. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, investments, or other strategic transactions we may make. You should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. i Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in the section titled Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of these principal risks include the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. The Company operates in evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate the Companys business and future prospects. Failure to manage our planned growth could place a significant strain on our resources. If we fail to retain our existing customers or do not acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. Material delays or defaults in customer payments could leave us unable to cover expenditures related to such customers projects, including the payment of our subcontractors. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to receive positive references from our existing customers. Our technology, products and services have only been developed in the last several years and we have had only limited opportunities to deploy and assess their performance in the field at full scale. We expect to incur substantial research and development costs and devote significant resources to identifying and commercializing new products and services, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us. If our products do not interoperate with our customers other systems, the purchase or deployment of our products and services may be delayed or cancelled. Cyberattacks through security vulnerabilities could lead to disruption of business, reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. ii If the Company is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, the Companys financial condition and results could be negatively affected. War, terrorism, and other acts of violence may affect the markets in which we operate, our clients and our product and service delivery. We may not be able to secure adequate insurance policies, or secure insurance policies at reasonable prices. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products have inherent safety risks, as they often operate in hazardous industrial environments and are relied on by our customers to operate in a safe manner. If the reliability of our products fails to meet expected levels during commercial operation, this could result property damage, injury, death, financial harm to the business, and/or brand harm to the business. Risks Related to Regulatory Requirements We and our customers operate in a highly regulated business environment and changes in regulation could impose costs on us or make our products less economical. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or other governmental agencies, or limitations put on the use of small UAS in response to public privacy and other concerns, may prevent us from expanding the sales of our drone solutions to industrial and government customers in the United States. Substantially all our current products depend on the availability and are subject to the use of licensed radio frequencies regulated by the Federal Communications Committee (FCC) in the United States. As a manufacturer of commercial UAS, we are subject to various government regulations, restrictions and requirements, and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm, restrict or add costs to our business. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology is uncertain. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. Risks Related to our Financial Results We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitable operations. Our future profitability may be dependent upon achieving cost reductions and projected economies of scale from increasing manufacturing quantities of our products. Failing to achieve such reductions in manufacturing costs and projected economies of scale could materially adversely affect our business. iii If our internal controls over financial reporting or our disclosure