Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this Risk Factors Summary section, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information included in this Annual Report. Economic uncertainty and capital markets disruption, which has been significantly impacted by geopolitical instability, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Volatile or recessionary conditions in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business and/or our access to capital markets in a material manner. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, such as actual events or concerns involving liquidity, defaults, or non-performance by financial institutions or transactional counterparties, could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation. The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell, and new entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems and resources, could adversely affect our business, disrupt operations and expose us to significant liabilities. Changes in U.S. government priorities and/or delays or reductions in defense spending could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and overall business. Changing procurement policies could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed, and our reputation may be damaged. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of any key customers could cause our sales to decrease significantly. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers, as well as our ability to maintain our production schedule. Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. 26 Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. If we cannot retain, attract, and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Any future acquisitions could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves, and adversely affect our financial results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure. If we are unable to protect our proprietary design and intellectual property rights and/or the confidentiality of our trade secrets our competitive position could be harmed, or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Many of our proprietary designs are in digital form and the breach of our computer systems could result in these designs being stolen. Our proprietary designs are susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. Claims by others that we, our channel partners or our end-customers infringe their intellectual property or trade secret rights could harm our business, including as a result of our contractual indemnification obligations to certain channel partners and end customers. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. Our international operations, and in particular Bressner's operations in Germany, subject us to a variety of risks and challenges. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards, in the United States or internationally related to our suppliers products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The price of our common stock may be volatile, and the price could decline if securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our company or if there are substantial future sales of shares of our common stock, amongst other things. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We are a smaller reporting company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, war or military conflicts (such as the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the more recent conflict between Israel and Hamas), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. 27 Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Europe and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including California, Germany, and China. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, economic sanctions (such as those recently imposed by the United States and other countries on Russia), trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. In particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans. For example, regulations to implement the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us with critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. In addition, geopolitical and domestic political developments, such as existing and potential trade wars, political or social unrest, military conflicts, elections and post-election developments, and other events beyond our control, can increase levels of political and economic unpredictability globally and increase the volatility of global financial markets. Political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business could also harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party vendors and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results. We are currently operating in a period of economic uncertainty and capital markets disruption, which has been significantly impacted by geopolitical instability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any negative impact on the global economy and capital markets resulting from the military conflicts or any other geopolitical tensions. U.S. and global markets are experiencing volatility and disruption following the escalation of geopolitical tensions, including as a result of the continuing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the more recent conflict between Israel and Hamas. Recently, international relations between the U.S. and Russia, certain Middle Eastern nations as well as certain other countries, has been strained, and they may continue to deteriorate further. Although the length and impact of the ongoing military conflicts are highly unpredictable, the conflicts in Ukraine and Israel/Palestine could lead to market disruptions, including significant volatility in commodity prices, credit and capital markets, as well as supply chain interruptions. We are continuing to monitor the situation in Ukraine, Israel/Palestine and globally and assessing its potential impact on our business. Additionally, the ongoing conflict in Ukraine has led to sanctions and other penalties being levied by the United States, European Union and other countries against Russia. Additional potential sanctions and penalties have also been proposed and/or threatened. Russian military actions and the resulting sanctions could adversely affect the global economy and financial markets and lead to instability and lack of liquidity in capital markets, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain additional funds. Although our business has not been materially impacted by the ongoing military conflict between Russian and Ukraine, Israel and Hamas or other geopolitical instability to date, it is impossible to predict the extent to which our operations, or those of our suppliers and manufacturers, will be impacted in the short and long term, or the ways in which the conflict may impact our business. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions are impossible to predict, but could be substantial. Any such disruptions may also magnify the impact of other risks described in this Annual Report. Volatile or recessionary conditions in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business or our access to capital markets in a material manner. Worsening economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could severely reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, which could affect our ability to secure 28 product to meet our customers demand. Our results of operations and the implementation of our business strategy could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy. An economic downturn may cause uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and could have a material adverse effect on us. We could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates, weak economies, and political conditions in each of the countries in which we sell our products. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, such as actual events or concerns involving liquidity, defaults, or non-performance by financial institutions or transactional counterparties, could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and results of operations. Actual events involving reduced or limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. For example, in March 2023, Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank were closed and taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") as receiver. Although we did not have any cash or cash equivalent balances on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank or Signature Bank, investor concerns regarding the U.S. or international financial systems could result in less favorable commercial financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter financial and operating covenants, or systemic limitations on access to credit and liquidity sources, thereby making it more difficult for us to acquire financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any decline in available funding or access to our cash and liquidity resources could, among other risks, adversely impact our ability to meet our operating expenses, financial obligations or fulfill our other obligations, or result in breaches of our financial and/or contractual obligations. Any of these impacts, or any other impacts resulting from the factors described above or other related or similar factors not described above, could have material adverse impacts on our liquidity and our current and/or projected business operations and financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation. Inflation has the potential to adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing our overall cost structure, particularly if we are unable to achieve commensurate increases in the prices we charge our customers. The United States and Germany both experienced high rates of inflation in the year ended December 31, 2023. The existence of inflation in the domestic and global economies has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates and capital costs, shipping costs, supply shortages, increased costs of labor, weakening exchange rates and other similar effects. As a result of inflation, we have experienced and may continue to experience, cost increases. If inflation continues to increase in the U.S. and/or Germany for a prolonged period of time, or the rate of inflation in our markets were to increase, or if a global recession were to occur, our expenses could increase substantially. Although we may take measures to mitigate the impact of this inflation, if these measures are not effective our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Even if such measures are effective, there could be a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our results of operations and when the cost inflation is incurred. The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. The market for cutting-edge, high-performance computing products is characterized by rapid advances in technologies. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to develop products, new business initiatives and create innovative and custom designs for our customers. The growth of server clusters, specialized or high-performance applications, and hosted software solutions which require fast and efficient data processing, is crucial to our success. It is difficult to predict the development of the demand for high-performance computing, supercomputers, and related hardware solutions, the size and growth rate for this market, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on several factors, including the demand, cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our products. If our products are not adopted or there is a reduction in demand for our products caused by a lack of customer acceptance, a slowdown in demand for computational power, an overabundance of unused computational power, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, 29 it could result in reduced customer orders, early order cancellations, the loss of customers, or decreased sales, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our products are variable and difficult to predict and can result in fluctuations in our net sales from period to period. This has been particularly challenging for us in connection with our recent transition to focus more heavily on the military and defense markets, as the sales cycles in this space tend to be longer and subject to additional variables that are outside of our control. In addition, our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectation of future sales. Any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of sales is difficult and takes time, thus we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in net sales, and even a small shortfall in net sales could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin and operating results for a given quarter. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and volatile local, national, and international economic environments, any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Besides the other risks in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operations include, without limitation: Fluctuations in demand for our products and services; The inherent complexity, length, and associated unpredictability of product development windows and product lifecycles; Changes in customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; Changing market conditions; Any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; Our ability to continue to broaden our customer base beyond our traditional customers; The timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; and Our ability to develop, introduce, and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers requirements. Each of these factors individually, or the cumulative effect of two or more of these factors, could result in large fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell. Servers, computer accelerators, flash storage arrays, PCIe expansion products, and other products that we design, manufacture, and sell or license are subject to competition. The computer hardware and technology fields are well established with limited, and in many cases no, intellectual property and technological barriers to entry. The markets in which we operate are competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. The markets are influenced by, among others, brand awareness and reputation, price, strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support, product features, reliability and performance, scalability of products, and breadth of product offerings. Due to the nature of our products, competition occurs at the design, performance, and sales stages. A design or sales win by us does not limit further competition and our customers may purchase competitive products from third parties at any time. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. From a cost and control perspective, our products are specialized and thus generally cost more than our competitors products. If our ability to design specialized solutions is deemed to be on par or of lesser value than competing solutions, we could lose our customers and prospects. Many of our customers and competitors, often with substantially more resources or larger economies of scale, produce products that are competitive with our products. Many of these third parties mass-produce hardware solutions 30 and have not heavily invested in or allocated resources to the smaller scale specialized products and solutions we design. A decrease in the cost of general mass-produced hardware solutions, which can serve as a substitute for our products, or the entrance or additional allocation of resources by one of these customers or competitors into the production of specialized systems which compete with our products could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution, and sale of our high-performance computing solutions are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology, new products and new server configurations may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and earn design wins, which could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Large computer hardware and equipment manufacturers and suppliers have traditionally designed, produced, and sold general purpose servers, and storage arrays and related products and equipment. Our customers supplement these general-purpose systems by purchasing our specialized or customized systems or supplemental products, which improve the speed, efficiency, or performance of such systems. If the speed, efficiency, or computational power of such general purpose systems increases such that supplemental or specialized products become unnecessary, or the cost of such general purpose systems declines such that it is more cost effective for prospective customers to add general-purpose equipment rather than specialized or supplemental equipment, we could experience a significant decline in demand for the products which may significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products compete with and supplement general purpose servers, storage systems and related equipment. If the producers of general-purpose equipment implement proprietary standards, software, interfaces, or other interoperability restrictions, including controls which restrict the equipments compatibility with third party systems, we could experience a significant decline in sales because our products would not be interoperable with such systems, resulting in significant harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. In our marketplace, general-purpose equipment is traditionally mass-produced and available to order, while specialized equipment and custom bulk-order equipment is subject to a bid-based purchase system. If one or more large manufacturers of general or standard server storage arrays, or related products and equipment, provide specialized, customized, or supplementary equipment on a made-to-order or generally available basis, we could be forced to reduce our prices or change our selling model to remain competitive which would significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems and resources, could adversely affect our business, disrupt operations and expose us to liabilities to employees, customers, governmental regulators, and other third parties. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. As part of our normal business activities, we permit certain employees to perform some or all of their business activities remotely, we collect and store certain personal identifying and/or confidential information relating to our employees, customers, vendors and suppliers, and we maintain operational and financial information related to our business. Furthermore, we rely on products and services provided by third-party suppliers to operate certain critical business systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, email, and other functions, which exposes us to supply-chain attacks or other business disruptions. We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions, malware, computer viruses and malicious codes, ransomware, attachments to e-mail, unauthorized access attempts, denial of service attacks, phishing, social engineering, persons with access to systems inside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach has generally increased as the frequency, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques, tools and tactics used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers, 31 disaster recovery or other preventative or corrective measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely counteract this risk or fully mitigate the harms after such an attack. We have implemented certain systems and processes intended to address ongoing and evolving cybersecurity risks, secure our information technology, applications and computer systems, and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive, confidential and personal data. Although we and our service providers employ what we believe are adequate security, disaster recovery and other preventative and corrective measures, our security measures, taken as a whole, may not be sufficient for all possible situations and may be vulnerable to, among other things, fraud, hacking, employee error, system error, and faulty password management. Our ability to conduct our business may be impaired if our or our services providers information technology networks, systems or resources, including our and their websites or e-mail systems, are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, fraud, intentional penetration or disruption of our or their information technology resources by: a third party, natural disaster, a failure of hardware or software due to a design or programmatic flaw, a failure of hardware or software security controls, telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, fraudulent transactions, intentional or unintentional personnel actions, lost connectivity to our networked resources, or a failure of disaster recovery system. A significant and extended disruption could damage our business or reputation and cause, amongst other things, loss of revenues or customer relationships, unintended and/or unauthorized public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal identifying and confidential information, and us to incur significant expenses to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues. The release of confidential information may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals, business partners and/or regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include losses, penalties, fines, injunctions, expenses and charges recorded against our earnings and cause us reputational harm and/or could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Changes in U.S. government priorities and/or delays or reductions in defense spending could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and overall business. We expect that sales to prime contractors and U.S. governmental entities will constitute an increasingly significant portion of our future sales. We expect that our U.S. government revenues will largely result from contracts awarded under various U.S. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the DOD, and other departments and agencies. Changes in U.S. government priorities and/or delays or reductions in defense spending for various reasons, including as a result of potential changes in policy, administration, or budgetary positions, priorities, and protracted lead times could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The sale of our products to such defense customers are subject to U.S. government priorities, policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes, which are driven by numerous factors that are out of our control, including U.S. domestic and broader geopolitical events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the U.S. government to enact relevant legislation. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation, and the U.S. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shutdowns and continuing resolutions providing only enough funds for U.S. government agencies to continue operating at prior-year levels. If appropriations are delayed or a government 32 shutdown were to occur and continue for an extended period of time, we could be at risk of reduced orders, program cancellations and other disruptions and nonpayment. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, new contract and program starts are restricted and funding for our programs may be unavailable, reduced or delayed. Additionally, changes in the DODs funding priorities also could reduce opportunities in our existing or future programs or initiatives where we have made investments. Our contracts with the U.S. government are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. Consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations over time. To the extent we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract or in advance of a contract award or contract definitization, we are at risk of not being reimbursed for those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated under the contract or the contract is successfully awarded, definitized and funded, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As a result of the foregoing, U.S. government defense spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes and are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. Significant changes in U.S. government defense spending or changes in U.S. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our current business strategy and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. To the extent that we contract with the U.S. Government, we are subject to certain procurement laws and regulations, including those that enable the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience. To the extent that we contract with the U.S. Government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with certain of our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations by us, our employees, others working on our behalf, a supplier or a joint venture partner could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or perform services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. Also, elements of certain of contracts and/or programs are classified by the U.S. Government, which imposes security requirements that limit our ability to discuss our performance on these contracts and programs, including any specific risks, disputes and claims. The U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts at its convenience or for default based on our performance, either of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Generally, prime contractors have similar termination rights under subcontracts related to government contracts. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs. However, to the extent insufficient funds have been appropriated by the U.S. Government to cover our costs upon a termination for convenience, the U.S. Government may assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. Additionally, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the fact that our performance and/or the quality of the products or services we delivered were consistent with our contractual obligations as a subcontractor. Changing procurement policies could adversely affect our business and financial results. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and other multi-award contracts, which have the potential to create pricing pressure and to increase our costs by requiring us to submit multiple bids and proposals when targeting them for sales. Multi-award contracts require us to make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. Additionally, procurements that do not evaluate whether the cost assumptions in the bids are realistic can lead to bidders taking aggressive pricing positions, which could result in the winner realizing a loss upon contract award or an increased risk of lower margins or realizing a loss over the term of the contract. Competitors may be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing for contracts than we are. U.S. Government procurement policies and procedures, and the application thereof, change on a regular basis and such changes could adversely affect our ability to win new business or maintain or increase profitability. For example, an increase in the use of contract structures that shift risk to the contractor, such as fixed-price development 33 contracts and incentive-based fee arrangements, or the U.S. Government using different award fee criteria than historically used could adversely affect our profits or make it more difficult to win new contracts. Changes in regulations or interpretations of what constitute allowable costs under our government contracts could adversely impact our profitability, and changes in contract financing policy for fixed-price contracts, such as changes in performance and progress payments policies, could significantly affect the timing of our cash flows. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed, and our reputation may be damaged. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. The growth and expansion of our business and product offerings, as well as the need for innovation in order to maintain our competitive advantage, places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Any such future growth or change in focus or strategy would also add complexity to and require effective coordination throughout our organization. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to innovate and improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which could damage our reputation and brand, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales. If we were to lose any of these customers, our sales could decrease significantly. In the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately 53.8% and 37.4%, respectively, of net OSS sales were attributable to three customers, including disguise, Raytheon and the Navy. In the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Bressner did not have any customers that accounted for 10% or more of Bressners revenues for such periods. In addition, a few products comprise a significant amount of our sales, and the discontinuation, modification, or obsolescence of such products could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Company has now completed and fulfilled all of its orders associated with its former long-term media and entertainment customer, disguise, and does not anticipate further business from this customer in the future. This resulted from an acceleration in such customers investment in cloud technology and a drive towards less intelligent compute capability at the edge to reduce the costs of their componentry. This customers transition to cloud solutions had a negative impact on the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Loss of other significant customers in the future could materially harm the Companys business, financial position and/or results of operations. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with the necessary devices, parts, and systems to allow us to build, design and manufacture our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with these parties successfully, or disruptions to our suppliers businesses caused by supply chain constraints, inflation, human capital issues, and/or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. In the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, suppliers for which purchases represent greater than 10% of our total parts purchases accounted for approximately 37% and 25% of materials purchased, respectively. This concentration is with two suppliers, Concisys Inc. and Digi International Inc. Although we do believe we could locate additional suppliers to fulfill our needs in the event that our relationship with Concisys Inc., Digi International Inc. or any of our other suppliers terminated or they are unable to fulfill our manufacturing needs, any significant change in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition unless and until we are able to find suitable replacements. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract suppliers on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers are not required to supply our raw materials for any specific period or in any specific quantity or price. 34 Global pandemics or other disasters or public health concerns in regions of the world where we have operations or source material or sell products, such as outbreaks of COVID-19 or H1N1 flu, could result in the disruption of our business. These or any governmental developments or health concerns in countries in which we operate could result in social, economic, or labor instability. Any disruption resulting from these or similar events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to resume normalized operations, and this could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Although the COVID 19 pandemic has subsided we are continuing to experience unavailability of certain products and limited supplies, protracted delivery dates for componentry, increasing product costs, and changes in minimum order quantities to secure product. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers. Our sales depend on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to design new products, anticipate technological improvements and enhancements, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing computer hardware and software industry, and in the AI Transportable space in particular. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to develop products that offer performance features desired by our customers and performance and functionality superior or more cost effective than solutions offered by our competitors. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements, or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected, and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure that product introductions will meet our anticipated release schedules or that our products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the rapidly changing nature of the computer equipment market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies. Delays in our production cycle could result in outdated equipment or decreased purchases of our products. The design and manufacture of our products can take several months to several years. The length of such process depends on the complexity and purpose of the system or equipment being designed, and may be affected by factors such as the development and design of unique or specialized systems; the fabrication, availability, and supply of parts; the customization of parts, as applicable; the manufacture and/or assembly of the units, quality control testing; and the development and incorporation of new technologies. If our products are outdated upon completion of this process, our sales could materially decline, and it may be necessary to sell products at a loss. Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. We design and manufacture certain products to fit the specifications of government programs or OEM contracts. These programs may take months or years to complete and involve significant investment of our time, money, and resources. We generally receive upfront fees for these programs, but there is often little or no obligation on the part of our customer to purchase large volumes of products at the time of final product launch. Unsuccessful product launches could lead to reduced revenues and/or potential returns of products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be forced to sell products at a loss or spend a significant amount of resources to find additional customers for these products if these programs do not fit the future needs of our intended customers. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. Sales cycles for some of our products can take several months or longer. In addition, it can take time from the bid to the development and manufacture of the equipment. We maintain inventory based in large part on our forecasts of the volume and timing of orders. The varying length of the sales cycles makes accurate forecasting difficult. The delays inherent in our sales cycles raise the risk that the inventory we have on hand will become obsolete or impaired prior to its use or sale. If our forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders, we may be required to write off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory, based on a reduced sales price. A write off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 35 If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. Our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users, including the U.S. Government and military, to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose customers and/or market share, and divert the attention of our personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers perceptions of our brand. Also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, including a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers or maintain our current customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and/or result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. An unexpected change in failure rates of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. We offer product warranties that generally extend for one or two years from date of sale that require us to repair or replace defective products returned by the customer during the warranty period at no cost to the customer. Our product warranties are in addition to warranties we receive from our vendors. Existing and future product guarantees and warranties place us at the risk of incurring future returns and repair and/or replacement costs. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components sourced from our suppliers, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product defect rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product defect. We record an estimate for anticipated warranty-related costs based on historical and estimated future product return rates and expected repair or replacement costs. Although such costs have historically been within managements expectations and our warranty reserves (when coupled with warranty coverage provided by our vendors) have been sufficient to cover such costs, our reserves set aside to cover warranty returns may be inadequate due to an unanticipated number of customer returns, undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures or changes in estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product defects. As a result, if actual customer returns, product defect rates, parts and equipment costs or service labor costs exceed our estimates, or we experience unexpected changes in failure rates, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. Achieving design wins is an important success factor for our business. We work closely with OEMs and end users to ensure the customer gets the product they want in the specific configuration, size and weight required for the application. We have participated in many design wins based upon our ability to interpret technical specifications and proceed rapidly through prototyping, development, and delivery. This approach and expertise are two of the factors driving our growth. Failure to maintain our expertise and ability to deliver custom, specific design systems could harm our business. In order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that OEMs, customers and consumers will demand; 36 incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. Navigating the demand, supply, and operational challenges associated with lingering effects of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other macroeconomic factors unsuccessfully may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although many of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that most severely impacted our business have now significantly subsided, the COVID-19 pandemic has increased economic and demand uncertainty. Supply chain disruptions, resulting from factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, labor supply, shipping container shortages and other macroeconomic factors, have impacted, and may continue to impact, us and our customers, vendors, and suppliers. These disruptions have resulted in longer lead times and, increased product costs and shipping expenses. It is not currently possible to predict how long it will take for these supply chain disruptions to cease. The Company has experienced protracted timelines and shortages for delivery of our products as a result of such supply chain disruptions. The extent of the lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, global instability and other microeconomic factors on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer spending, including any recession in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. A recession or financial market correction could impact overall technology spending, adversely affecting demand for our products, our business and the value of our common stock. Additionally, an extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, though the full extent and duration is uncertain. If we cannot retain, attract, and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales, and service personnel. The loss of, and failure to replace, key technical management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. We have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers, though they may terminate employment with us at any time, for any reason and with no advance notice. We may lose key personnel to other high technology companies or to other larger companies with significantly greater resources than us who may recruit our key personnel. The replacement of members of our senior management team or other key personnel may involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, provided that we have equity available to grant, we may offer equity compensation through grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or restricted stock units. We do not currently have availability to grant significant awards under our equity inventive plan; unless and until our shareholders approve an amendment to our equity incentive plan, this may make it difficult to properly incentivize and retain our key employees. Although we may issue equity awards outside of our shareholder approved equity incentive plan to potential employees, they may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive enough. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to, and have had to, increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could and has materially increase our operating expenses. 37 We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, without limitation, the following: difficulties in successfully integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, offerings and personnel of the acquired company or companies; insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles; difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Acquisitions may also cause us to: use a substantial portion of our cash reserves or incur debt; issue equity securities or grant equity incentives to acquired employees that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership; assume liabilities, including potentially unknown liabilities; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; or become subject to intellectual property litigation or other litigation. Acquisitions of high-technology companies and assets are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our completed or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, such as processors, interconnects, flash storage and other infrastructure, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, as well as the potential for integration of differentiated technology into already-commoditized components, has resulted in, and may result in increased pricing pressure that may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive, which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary design and intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including our proprietary software, designs and know-how. We rely on trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse 38 engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. For example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our trade secrets and/or proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and managements attention, and there can be no assurance we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our trade secrets and/or intellectual property. Many of our proprietary designs are in digital form and the breach of our computer systems could result in these designs being stolen. If our cybersecurity measures are breached or unauthorized access to private or proprietary data is otherwise obtained, our proprietary designs could be stolen. Because we hold many of these designs in digital form on our servers, there exists an inherent risk that an unauthorized third party could conduct a cybersecurity breach resulting in the theft of our proprietary information. While we have taken steps to protect our proprietary information, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our competitive edge and our ability to obtain new customers thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Our proprietary designs are susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. Much of the value of our proprietary rights is derived from our vast library of design specifications. While we consider our design specifications to be protected by various proprietary, trade secret and intellectual property laws, such information is susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. We may not be able to prevent our competitors from developing competing design specifications and the cost of enforcing these rights may be significant. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary designs our financial condition and operating results could suffer. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. We consider trade secrets, including confidential and unpatented know-how and designs important to the maintenance of our competitive position. We protect trade secrets and confidential and unpatented know-how, in part, by customarily entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to such knowledge, such as our employees, outside technical and commercial collaborators, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to maintain confidentiality and assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property or trade secret rights could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. As the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. Intellectual property or trade secret claims against us, and any resulting lawsuits, may result in us incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and 39 prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert managements time and attention. We are generally obligated to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products, which could force us to incur substantial costs. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these channel partners and end-customers, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund amounts they have paid to us. Our channel partners and other end-customers in the future may seek indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought against them regarding our products. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming expensive to resolve, and could divert managements time and attention from managing our business. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which took effect in May 2018 and requires companies to meet requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection, and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements, to the extent applicable, could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. In addition, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which took effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The CCPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. Some observers have noted that the CCPA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent state privacy, data protection, and data security legislation in the U.S., which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. The CCPA was expanded substantially on January 1, 2023, when the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA) became fully operative. The CPRA, among other things, gives California residents the ability to limit use of certain sensitive personal information, further restricts the use of cross-contextual advertising, establishes restrictions on the retention of personal information, expands the types of data breaches subject to the CCPAs private right of action, provides for increased penalties for CPRA violations concerning California residents under the age of 16, and establishes a new California Privacy Protection Agency to implement and enforce the new law. Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. 40 Risks Related to Our International Operations Our international sales and operations, and in particular Bressner's operations in Germany, subject us to additional risks that can adversely effect our operating results and financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we derived as significant portion of our consolidated revenues from international sales and operations. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including, without limitation, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inflationary pressures and the possibility of recession; increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having international operations; reliance on channel partners; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; compliance with foreign laws and regulations, which are subject to change; compliance with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations; conflicts between U.S. laws and regulations and foreign laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing rights abroad. The impact of macroeconomic declines and higher interest rates has been particularly apparent in Germany, which accounted for 53% of the Companys sales (through Bressner) in the year ended December 31, 2023. Germany was in a recession for most of 2023, largely due to persistent high inflation and falling household spending. Continued inflation, volatility or recessionary risks in Germany or other countries that we operate of sell our products in could adversely affect or business and results of operations. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Our products are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our products must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we violate these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees, could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our channel partners, agents, or consultants fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Changes in our products or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may also create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, prevent our end-customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such laws and regulations, could also result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards in the United States or internationally related to our suppliers products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Our suppliers products are subject to governmental regulations in many jurisdictions. To achieve and maintain market acceptance, our suppliers products must continue to comply with these regulations and many industry standards. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, our suppliers may have to modify their products. The failure of their products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. Supplier uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for HPC products, including our products. Moreover, channel partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 41 We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Practices in the local business communities of many countries outside the United States have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock will depend on several factors, including those described in this Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our securities if you are unable to sell them at or above the price you paid. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, amongst other things: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or particularly, those companies in our industry; sales of shares of our common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders; failure of financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow the Company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors businesses, or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any major change in our management; general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. 42 In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the relevant companies. Broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or interest rate changes, may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market prices of particular companies securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation of this type, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders have substantial control over the Company and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 42.4% of our outstanding common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of March 8, 2024. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to exert significant control over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to exert significant control the management and affairs of the Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company; impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving the Company; or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our securities or do not publish research or reports about our Company, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We have no control over such analysts or the content and opinions in their reports. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our Company and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more equity research analysts cease coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Substantial future equity issuances and/or sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of shares of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial equity issuances and/or sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. As of March 8, 2024, we have 20,700,435 shares of our common stock outstanding. We may issue or sell a significant number of shares of our common stock or other securities to raise capital in the future or in connection with a strategic transaction, which would result in significant dilution to our current shareholders. Additionally, historically, a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our executive officers, employees and directors has been in the form of equity awards. We believe that this structure incentivizes such individuals to both join and remain with the Company, and also serves to further the growth, development and financial success of the Company by providing a means by which such persons can personally benefit through the ownership of capital stock of the Company. However, the issuance of securities to our executive officers, employees and directors also results in dilution to our current shareholders, and substantial sales of such securities could cause the market price 43 of our securities to decline and/or could depress the growth of the market price of our securities. We have the right to designate and issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to designate and/or issue additional preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences, and privileges for the preferred stock. Currently, we do not have any series of preferred stock designated or shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences, and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and up to 50,000,000 shares of authorized common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be affected at a duly called annual or special meeting, and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the president; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; and provide that vacancies on our board of directors may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation specifies that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. 44 These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations. If our available cash balances and anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, due to lower demand for our products as a result of other risks described in this Risk Factors section, we may seek to raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations or licensing arrangements. We may also consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, pursue strategic investments, take advantage of financing opportunities, or other reasons. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued, or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay or reduce the scope of our development programs. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these actions could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, cash dividends to holders of our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Anyone considering investing in shares of our common stock should not rely on such investment to provide dividend income. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to establish, maintain and expand our operations and product offerings. In addition, any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their shares of common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. We are a smaller reporting company, and the reduced public company reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently qualify as a smaller reporting company, as defined in the Exchange Act. For as long as we continue to be a smaller reporting company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements or scaled disclosure requirements applicable to other public companies but not to smaller reporting companies, which includes, among other things: being permitted to have only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations disclosure; an exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; 45 reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation, amongst other things, in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will continue to be a smaller reporting company until we have more than $250 million in public float (based on our common stock) measured as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or, in the event we have no public float (based on our common stock), annual revenues of more than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. As a result of the foregoing, the information we provide may be different than the information that is available with respect to other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY. Risks related to Cybersecurity Incidents We face significant risks related to cybersecurity threats, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cybersecurity incidents, including but not limited to unauthorized access, data breaches, and other malicious activities, could result in the loss or theft of sensitive information, disruption of our operations, and damage to our reputation. While we have implemented measures to protect our information systems, there can be no assurance that these measures will effectively prevent all cybersecurity incidents. Specific risks include, but are not limited to: 1. Data Breaches: A breach of our information systems could lead to unauthorized access to customer or employee data, resulting in reputational harm and legal liabilities. 2. Operational Disruption: Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our operations, leading to delays in production, delivery, or fulfillment of customer orders. 3. Intellectual Property Theft: Unauthorized access to our proprietary information could result in intellectual property theft, impacting our competitive position in the market. 4. Regulatory and Legal Compliance: Cybersecurity incidents may subject us to regulatory investigations, legal claims, and penalties, affecting our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 5. Third-Party Relationships: Our reliance on third-party vendors and service providers exposes us to additional cybersecurity risks, and a security breach affecting these entities could impact our operations. Although, to date, cybersecurity incidents have not materially impacted our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, there can be no assurances that they will not do so in the future. Refer to Item 1A. Risk factors in this Annual Report for additional information about cybersecurity-related risks. Risk Management and Strategy Assessing, Identifying, and Managing Material Cyber Threats We have in place certain infrastructure, systems, policies, and procedures that are designed to proactively and reactively address circumstances that arise when unexpected events such as a cybersecurity incident occur. These include processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. We consult with external parties, such as cybersecurity firms and risk management and governance experts, on risk management and strategy. We use a team of outside vendors and government services specializing in IT and cybersecurity that provide expertise, tools, and methodologies to identify and assess vulnerabilities and potential threats. Automated tools and 46 AI-based user behavior analytics also support identification and management of cyber threats. Response to a broad category of threats is immediate and automatic. Security personnel and members of our management are alerted when cyber threats or anomalies are detected. Persistent threats or issues that, in the opinion of management, are material are immediately brought to the attention of our board of directors. In the event of a detected cyber incident by 24/7 monitoring software or employee notification, our IT and cybersecurity provider performs a detailed assessment of the incident, identifies the source of the problem, and resolves the issue as appropriate. If they are unable to resolve the issue, the problem is escalated to our cybersecurity monitoring and detection software provider for resolution. Events which are not routinely resolved by our IT and cybersecurity provider are brought to the attention of the board. In order to mitigate risks of cybersecurity incidents, critical business and operational data are backed up at night and stored offsite for security purposes and to restore data in the event of a breach. Additionally, we provide cybersecurity awareness training of our employees, incident response personnel, and senior management. Governance Our management team, including our vice president of technology, is primarily responsible for assessing and managing our material risks from cybersecurity threats. Management supervises both our internal cybersecurity and IT personnel, as well as our retained external cybersecurity consultants and vendors. Additionally, they supervise efforts to prevent, detect, mitigate, and remediate cybersecurity risks and incidents through various means, which may include briefing from internal or external security personnel; threat intelligence and other information obtained from governmental, public or private sources, including external consultants or vendors engaged by us; and alerts and reports produced by security tools deployed in our IT environment. Our board of directors, through its Audit & Risk Committee, provides oversight and oversees managements processes for identifying and mitigating risks, including cybersecurity risks, to help align our risk exposure with our strategic objectives. Management, including our vice president of technology, and our Audit & Risk Committee members, of which two members of our committee have received training and certifications on cyber risk governance for public companies, regularly brief our board of directors on our cybersecurity and information security posture as well as cybersecurity incidents deemed to have a moderate or higher business impact, even if viewed as immaterial to us. As cyber threats evolve and become more sophisticated, we believe that the board's involvement in cybersecurity governance ensures that we are adequately focused on resources and protecting the Companys assets and reputation. Vital aspects of our cybersecurity governance that are currently in process or have been implemented include the following: Governance and Strategy: Management, the Audit & Risk Committee and the board ensure that our cybersecurity strategy is aligned with our business strategy. Risk Management and Oversight: Our Audit & Risk Committee and the board, as part of the boards enterprise risk management oversight, actively oversee our cybersecurity risk management framework, ensuring that material risks are identified, assessed, and mitigated. Resource Allocation: o Budget Approval: The board reviews and approves cybersecurity budgets and resource allocations to ensure we have adequate resources to implement and maintain effective cybersecurity measures. o Investment Decisions: The board, based upon recommendation of management or our external vendors and consultants, evaluates and approves significant investments in cybersecurity technologies, training, and talent. Compliance and Legal Obligations: o Regulatory Compliance: Management and the board both play a role in overseeing compliance with relevant cybersecurity regulations and legal requirements. o Legal Oversight: Management and the board ensure we have appropriate legal counsel to address cybersecurity-related issues, including breach notification requirements. Education and Awareness: 47 o Training and Awareness: Members of management and members of our board take reasonable steps to stay informed about cybersecurity trends, threats, and best practices through ongoing education and training. Management reviews Company employee training programs to ensure employees are being trained appropriately and kept up to date on evolving cyber trends. o Board Training: Certain of our board members have received training to understand cybersecurity risks and their role in overseeing cybersecurity. Reporting and Communication: o Periodic Updates: The board receives periodic updates from management, responsible staff and the Audit & Risk Committee regarding the Companys cybersecurity posture, incidents, and risk management efforts. o Communication Strategy: Management, together with the board, are in the process of establishing a communication strategy for addressing cybersecurity disclosures with stakeholders, including customers, employees, and the public. Performance Evaluation: Included in the boards annual evaluation of the performance of the Companys chief executive officer is the effectiveness of implementing cybersecurity policy and measures, ensuring that cybersecurity policies and practices are effective and aligned with organizational goals. Cybersecurity Culture: The board fosters a cybersecurity-aware culture throughout the organization, supporting managements efforts to build risk management including cyber into the fabric of the operating culture. Despite these efforts, the rapidly evolving nature of cybersecurity threats requires ongoing vigilance, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent all incidents. In addition to the foregoing, management and the board are evaluating, and intend to implement, further cybersecurity related measures, including without limitation developing a more robust internal policy framework, incident response plan, crisis management planning, and third-party vendor assessments and contractual obligations for third parties that the Company engages with. The Company intends to progress these efforts throughout 2024. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Our corporate headquarters are in a leased space comprising of approximately 29,342 square feet in Escondido, California under a lease that expires in August 2030. We also lease a 3,208 square foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah that expires in June 2025, that houses our Ion software development team. Additionally, we lease a 1,632 square foot facility located in Anaheim, California, with the lease expiring in June 2025. Bressner leases space comprising of 11,836 square feet on a month-to-month lease. We believe our existing facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. We are subject to litigation, claims, investigations, and audits arising from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. See footnote No. 12 Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not Applicable 48 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information Our common stock, par value $0.0001, per share is publicly traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol OSS. Below is our quarterly information with respect to the high and low sale prices for our common stock for such time periods. High Low First Quarter (through March 8, 2024) $ 4.03 $ 1.79 * * On March 8, 2024, the closing price was $3.54 per share. 2023 2022 Year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: High Low High Low First Quarter $ 3.71 $ 2.44 $ 5.19 $ 3.75 Second Quarter $ 3.42 $ 2.33 $ 4.95 $ 3.80 Third Quarter $ 3.40 $ 1.56 $ 4.19 $ 3.13 Fourth Quarter $ 2.34 $ 1.82 $ 3.40 $ 2.69 Holders As of March 8, 2024, there were 20,700,435 shares of our common stock outstanding held by approximately 5,800 holders of record of our common stock. This number was derived from our stockholder records and does not include beneficial holders of our common stock whose shares are held in street name with various dealers, clearing agencies, banks, brokers, and other fiduciaries. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Equity Compensation Plan Information See Part III, Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2023, there were no unregistered sales of our securities that were not reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 6. [RESERVED]. 49 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and operating results together with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion and analysis contain forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or in other parts of this Annual Report. Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets specialized high-performance compute, high speed switch fabrics and storage hardware and software, which are designed to target edge AI Transportable deployments. Edge computing is a form of computing that is done on site, near a particular data source or the user, rather than in the cloud, minimizing the need for data to be processed in a remote datacenter. This growing trend increases computing performance and security, as the data does not have to travel to a distant datacenter location. Edge computing is most recognizable in applications such as sensor processing, sensor fusion, autonomy and AI/ML. To meet the demands at the edge we offer specialized modules and systems that consist of computers, switch fabrics and storage products that incorporate the latest state-of-the art components with embedded proprietary software. Such modules and systems allow us to offer high-end solutions to target markets to be integrated into, platforms, vehicles and applications. The global increase in load on the cloud infrastructure and increase in AI applications are the primary factors driving the growth of the edge computing market. We market our products to manufacturers of automated equipment used for medical, industrial, and military applications. Our customer applications often require connection to a wide array of data sources and sensors, ultra-fast processing power, and the ability to quickly access and store large and ever-growing data sets at their physical location (rather than in the cloud). This equipment requires datacenter class performance optimized for deployment at the edge in challenging environments. Many of these edge applications have unique requirements, including special and compact form factors ruggedized for harsh conditions, which cannot be accommodated by traditional controlled air-conditioned datacenters. We believe that we are uniquely positioned as a specialized provider to address the needs of this market, providing custom servers, data acquisition platforms, compute accelerators, solid-state storage arrays, system I/O expansion systems, as well as edge optimized industrial and panel PCs, tablets, and handheld compute devices. Our systems also offer industry leading capabilities that occupy less physical space and require less power consumption. We deliver this high-end technology to our customers through the sale of equipment and embedded software. One Stop Systems, Inc. was originally incorporated as a California corporation in 1999, after initially being formed as a California limited liability company in 1998. On December 14, 2017, the Company was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in connection with its initial public offering. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company formed a wholly owned subsidiary in Germany, OSS GmbH. Then, in July 2016, the Company acquired Magma and its operations that complemented OSS' manufacture of custom high-performance compute servers. On August 31, 2018, the Company acquired Concept Development, Inc. ("CDI"), which was located in Irvine, California. CDI specialized in the design and manufacture of custom high-performance computing systems for airborne in-flight entertainment, flight safety equipment, and networking systems. CDIs business was fully integrated into the core operations of OSS as of June 1, 2020. On October 31, 2018, OSS GmbH acquired 100% of the outstanding equity of Bressner Technology GmbH, a Germany limited liability company located near Munich, Germany ("Bressner"). Bressner designs and manufactures standard and customized servers, panel PCs, and PCIe expansion systems. Bressner also provides manufacturing, test, sales, and marketing services for customers throughout the EMEA. 50 Recent Developments Management and Board Changes In the first quarter of 2023, we implemented certain internal organizational changes to align our US-based operations with, and to further support and accelerate, our strategy to focus on the AI Transportables industry and our defense business in particular. In furtherance of this strategy and our goals, during 2023 we took various steps to strengthen our management team and board of directors with individuals who have deep experience and high-level contacts in the defense sector, as discussed below. In June 2023, David Raun stepped down as the Companys president and chief executive officer, and we hired Michael Knowles to fill such roles. Mr. Knowles has significant defense industry experience, as well as strong connections within the military space. In addition, in July 2023, we hired Robert Kalebaugh, who also has significant defense industry experience, as vice president of sales. Their combined experience and market reach has been leveraged to increase our global pipeline and to establish OSS as a formidable player in the defense market. In addition, we made significant changes to the profile of our board of directors in 2023. Effective September 30, 2023, Jack Harrison and Sita Lowman tendered their resignations from our board of directors and the relevant committees thereof, and Michael Knowles, our chief executive officer and president, and retired Vice Admiral Michael Dumont, a former member of our strategic advisory board, were appointed as directors of the Company, to fill the two vacant board seats created by the resignations. These changes were part of the first phase of our plan to reprofile our board of directors to further align with our focus on AI Transportables and our military business. In November 2023, our board of directors unanimously adopted resolutions to temporarily increase the size of the board from seven members to nine members, and to subsequently decrease the size of the board back down to seven members, effective as of the Companys 2024 annual meeting of stockholders (the 2024 Annual Meeting). The board also appointed Joseph Manko and Mitchell Herbets as directors of the Company, to fill the vacancies created by the board expansions implemented in November 2023. Mr. Manko serves as a managing member and senior principal at Horton Capital Management, LLC, a significant shareholder of the Company, and has significant public company board and corporate governance experience. Mr. Herbets has extensive strategic and technical experience as an executive serving the technology and defense industries, as well as public and private company board experience. These combined efforts to reprofile the board in 2023 have advanced the Company's strategic efforts to grow our business in the rugged edge computing market and in supporting our overall focus on governance, capital markets and organizational growth and execution. As noted above, the size of our board of directors will be decreased back down to seven members in connection with our 2024 Annual Meeting. The seven person slate to be presented to our shareholders for election at the 2024 Annual Meeting will be determined by the full board prior to filing our proxy statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting with the SEC. Other Changes and Developments On April 7, 2023, we amended our Amended and Restated Bylaws (the Bylaws) to (i) revise Article II, Section 2.5 of the Bylaws to incorporate those requirements set forth in Rule 14a-19 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as recently implemented by the SEC; and (ii) revise Article II, Section 2.8 of the Bylaws to decrease the quorum threshold necessary to conduct business at shareholder meetings of the Company to one-third of the voting power of the Companys capital stock issued and outstanding as of the relevant record date. Pursuant to Article X of the Bylaws, stockholder approval was not required to amend the Bylaws. Additionally, as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, in 2023 we completed and fulfilled our orders associated with our previous long-term media and entertainment customer, and do not anticipate business from them in the future. This resulted from an acceleration in such customers investment in cloud technology and a drive towards less intelligent compute capability at the edge to reduce the costs of their componentry. This is particularly true of their virtual products, which do not require the same level of ruggedization, as this system is not typically operated in harsh environments and for which software is being developed to provide a real-time cloud solution. This customers transition to cloud solutions had a negative impact on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. 51 With our shifted focus to the development and sale of AI Transportables, we have significantly increased our efforts to penetrate the military and defense sectors in particular. With the recent hiring of a new president and chief executive officer and new vice president of sales, both with extensive experience in contracting in the defense industry, we have further increased our emphasis and focus on the pursuit of revenue opportunities with major defense contractors and the military. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The Company recognizes revenue under accounting standard ASC 606. Revenue is primarily generated from the sale of computer hardware and engineering services, and, to a minimal extent, revenue is also generated from the sale of software and sales of software maintenance and support contracts. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a specific point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at that point in time when products ship and control is deemed to be transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs of materials, costs paid to third-party contract manufacturers (which may include the costs of components), and personnel costs associated with manufacturing and support operations. Personnel costs consist of wages, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation expenses. Cost of revenue also includes freight, allocated overhead costs and inventory write-offs and changes to our inventory and warranty reserves. Allocated overhead costs consist of certain facilities and utility costs. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars with an improvement in margin, as product revenue increases. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative, sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Salaries and personnel-related costs, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant components of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities and utility costs. General and Administrative - General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources, and fees for third-party professional services, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in growing the business. Impairment of Goodwill - Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually and when we deem that a triggering event has occurred that has impaired the value of goodwill a write-down in value is recorded. Marketing and Selling Marketing and Selling expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel, and entertainment expenses as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, tradeshows, events, corporate communications, and brand-building activities. We expect marketing and selling expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our sales force, increase marketing resources, and further develop sales channels. Employee Retention Credit - For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company received a government provided Employee Retention Credit ("ERC") for the retention of employees during the COVID-19 pandemic during the years of 2020 and 2021, in the amount of $2,004,382 less commission of $287,655. Research and Development - Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, prototype expenses, depreciation associated with assets acquired for research and development, 52 third-party engineering, and contractor support costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in new and existing products. Other Income (Expense), net Other income consists of miscellaneous income and income received for activities outside of our core business. Other expense includes expenses for activities outside of our core business. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of estimated income taxes due to the United States and German governments as well as state tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we conduct business, along with the change in our deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, presented in dollars and as a percentage of revenue. For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Revenue $ 60,896,797 $ 72,421,345 Cost of revenue 42,942,175 52,023,736 Gross profit 17,954,622 20,397,609 Operating expenses: General and administrative 9,264,447 7,279,401 Impairment of goodwill 5,630,788 - Marketing and selling 6,651,516 6,806,306 Research and development 4,331,024 4,743,574 Total operating expenses 25,877,775 18,829,281 (Loss) income from operations (7,923,153 ) 1,568,328 Other income (expense): Interest income 544,958 237,751 Interest expense (117,774 ) (162,391 ) Employee retention credit 1,716,727 - Other (expense) income, net (9,806 ) 550,854 Total other income (expense), net 2,134,105 626,214 (Loss) income before taxes (5,789,048 ) 2,194,542 Provision for income taxes 927,128 4,423,597 Net loss $ (6,716,176 ) $ (2,229,055 ) 53 For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 70.5 % 71.8 % Gross profit 29.5 % 28.2 % Operating expenses: General and administrative 15.2 % 10.1 % Impairment of goodwill 9.2 % 0.0 % Marketing and selling 10.9 % 9.4 % Research and development 7.1 % 6.5 % Total operating expenses 42.5 % 26.0 % (Loss) income from operations -13.0 % 2.2 % Other income (expense): Interest income 0.9 % 0.3 % Interest expense -0.2 % -0.2 % Employee retention credit 2.8 % 0.0 % Other income (expense), net 0.0 % 0.8 % Total other income (expense), net 3.5 % 0.9 % (Loss) income before taxes -9.5 % 3.0 % Provision for income taxes 1.5 % 6.1 % Net loss -11.0 % -3.1 % Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: For The Year Ended December 31, 2023 For The Year Ended December 31, 2022 Entity: Revenue Cost of Revenue Gross Profit Gross Margin % Revenue Cost of Revenue Gross Profit Gross Margin % OSS $ 28,809,887 $ (18,544,901 ) $ 10,264,986 35.6 % $ 43,286,715 $ (29,142,852 ) $ 14,143,863 32.7 % Bressner 32,086,910 (24,397,274 ) 7,689,636 24.0 % 29,134,630 (22,880,884 ) 6,253,746 21.5 % $ 60,896,797 $ (42,942,175 ) $ 17,954,622 29.5 % $ 72,421,345 $ (52,023,736 ) $ 20,397,609 28.2 % Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2023, our total revenue decreased $11,524,548, or 15.9%, as compared to the same period in 2022. OSS saw a decrease in revenue of $14,476,828, or 33.4%, as compared to the same period in 2022. The majority of this decrease is primarily attributable to decreases in shipments to our former media customer, for which shipments have now ceased, bankruptcy of an autonomous trucking customer and delay in the receipt of certain military orders for our data storage units. Bressner experienced an increase of $2,952,280, or 10.1%, as compared to the same period in 2022 as a result of additional project based related business, increases in the number of smaller accounts and having available inventory. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue decreased $9,081,561, or 17.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year in 2022. OSS saw a decrease in cost of revenue of $10,597,951, or 36.4%, as compared to the prior year period in 2022. This decrease in cost of revenue is mainly attributable to a decrease in our sales of products into the autonomous trucking industry and to our media customer (disguise) and additional allowance for inventory obsolescence related primarily to disguise. Bressners cost of revenue increased $1,516,390, or 6.6%, as compared to the prior year in 2022, due to a general economic improvement in Europe in the business environment and procuring large, one-time orders. The overall gross margin percentage was 29.5% for the 2023 period as compared to 28.2% in the same period in 2022. OSS gross margin percentage for the year ended December 31, 2023, was 35.6%, an increase of 2.9 percentage points as compared to the prior year period in 2022 of 32.7%, due to the decline in lower margin sales to our previous 54 media custom, offset set by underutilization of production resources, due to overall lower revenue. Though OSS has experienced an improvement in gross margin percentage due to a change in product mix, the Company is experiencing pressure on margins as a result of underutilization of manufacturing capacity due to reduced volume. Bressner contributed gross margin at a rate of 24.0%, as compared to the same period in 2022 of 21.5%, an increase of 2.5 percentage points, resulting from strategic management of inventory and of having sought-after products sold at a premium, product mix and sales of $3.2 million of OSS HPC type products. Operating expenses General and administrative expense General and administrative expense increased $1,985,046, or 27.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. OSS experienced an increase of $1,823,310, or 33.2%. Of this increase, approximately $1,529,000 is attributable to increased non-recurring costs associated with our organizational restructuring and outside professional services. Such costs included additional equity compensation, wages, legal fees, search firm fees, and additional board compensation attributable to the strategic transition committee. Bressner had an increase of $161,736, or 9.0%, resulting from increased employee wages and new employees and expenditures for additional computer storage. Overall, total general and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenue to 15.2% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 10.1% during the same period in 2022. Impairment of goodwill During year, the Company took a write-down of goodwill of $5,630,788 as a result of the overall financial performance of OSS as compared to plan, the transition of and focus on our product strategy on AI Transportables and the defense industry deferment of certain orders. There was no such impairment charge in 2022. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense decreased $154,790, or 2.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. OSS had a decrease of $399,092, or 7.4%, which was mainly attributable to a reduction in employee costs resulting from our organizational restructuring. Bressner had an increase of $244,302, or 17.2%, primarily resulting from the addition of new marketing personnel and sales collateral material. Overall, total marketing and selling expense increased as a percentage of revenue to 10.9% during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 9.4% during the same period in 2022. Research and development expense Research and development expense decreased $412,550, or 8.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. OSS saw a decrease of $495,531, or 11.5%. The decrease was largely driven by engineering resources being deployed on chargeable projects, which costs are reclassified as a component of costs of sales. Bressner experienced an increase of $82,981, or 19.1%. This increase was attributable to increased testing of product to support the increase in revenue. Overall, total research and development expense as a percentage of revenue increased as a percentage of revenue to 7.1% during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 6.5% during the same period in 2022. Interest income Interest income increased $307,207 for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase is attributable to higher interest rates on qualified short-term investments that meet Company requirements. Interest expense Interest expense decreased $44,617 for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, as a result of the paydown of approximately $1,300,000 in outstanding debt. Employee Retention Credit For the year December 31, 2023, the Company received a government provided Employee Retention Credit ("ERC") for the retention of employees during the COVID-19 pandemic during the years of 2020 and 2021, in the amount of $2,004,382 less commission of $287,655, respectively. 55 Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), for the year ended December 31, 2023, resulted in net other expense of $9,806, as compared to net other income of $550,854, in the same period in 2022, for a net decrease of $560,660. The most significant contributions to the year-over-year change include $500,320 reversal of a settlement accrual for previous contract disputes and the sale of a URL for Magma.com in 2022 for $125,000 and translation gain, net. Provision for income taxes We have recorded an income tax provision of $927,128 and $4,423,597, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 differed from the statutory rate mainly due to permanent non-deductible goodwill amortization for Bressner, change in valuation allowance, deductions related to expenses of OSS stock options, research and development credits, and changes in reserves for uncertain tax positions, as well as projecting federal, foreign and state tax liabilities for the year. Additionally, during 2023, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill attributable to OSS that impacted the effective tax rate. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, research and development costs are no longer fully deductible and are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes effective January 1, 2022. The mandatory capitalization requirement increases our deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance and may have an impact on payment of tax liabilities. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023, is (16.0%), as compared to 201.4% in the prior year 2022. The change in the effective tax rate is primarily related to the effect of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets initially recorded in 2022. Liquidity and capital resources Historically, our primary sources of liquidity have been provided by public and private offerings of our securities and revenues generated from our business operations. As of December 31, 2023, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $4,048,948, with short-term investments of $7,771,820, and total working capital of $35,571,708. Cash and cash equivalents held by Bressner totaled US$1,505,980 on December 31, 2023. Bressners debt covenants do not permit the use of those funds by its parent company. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we had loss from operations of $7,923,153, with cash used in operating activities of $620,784. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we had income from operations of $1,568,328, with cash used in operating activities of $7,806,025. The year over year difference is primarily a result of the $1,985,046 increase in general and administrative expense and changes in working capital for accounts receivable and inventories. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows are used to fund ongoing operations, fund research and development projects for new products technologies and provide ongoing support services for our customers. Over the next year, we anticipate that we will use our liquidity and cash flows from our operations to fund our business. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, during the year 2023, economists continued to suggest that an elevated risk of economic downturn in the U.S. and Germany will continue for the foreseeable future, which could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term and could negatively affect our operations. We intend to continue to monitor the effects of inflation, global supply chain shortages and the economic conditions, and, if appropriate, we may alter our plans to address such concerns as they may arise. Managements plans are to focus on acquiring new customer orders to replace lost revenue attributable to our previous media customer, to continue our efforts towards responding to the changing economic landscape, including significant inflation, both domestically and internationally, foreign currency exchange rates, a potential recession in the U.S. and/or Germany, the high Federal Reserve and European Central Bank interest rates, supply chain constraints and 56 international conflicts, by continuing to control hiring and operating costs, conserve cash, and continual focus on improving margin. Management expects these actions and continued diligence towards limiting cost growth and expense containment will result in slowing the rate of growth in costs as compared to revenue growth; our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, partially benefited from such actions particularly those resulting from a reduction in force in April 2023. Management is also committed to conserving cash and securing debt and/or equity financing, as required, for liquidity to meet our cash requirements through at least a period of the next twelve months. In April 2022, the Company obtained a domestic revolving line of credit of $2,000,000 from its bank, which was renewed in April 2023 and renews on an annual basis at the current prime rate. To access this line of credit the Company must maintain cash and investments balances at a minimum of $4,000,000. Although the Company has not drawn down on the line of credit to date, it may choose to do so in the future. Additionally, in August 2023, we filed a new registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-274073) with the SEC, which became effective on August 25, 2023, and allows us to offer and sell up to an aggregate of $100,000,000 of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants to purchase our common stock, preferred stock or debt securities, subscription rights to purchase our common stock, preferred stock or debt securities and/or units consisting of some or all of these securities, in any combination, together or separately, in one or more offerings, in amounts, at prices and on the terms that we will determine at the time of the offering and which will be set forth in a prospectus supplement and any related free writing prospectus. In the event that we need additional financing, we may choose to consummate an offering of our securities under the registration statement on S-3 in order to raise capital. As a result of managements implementation of our cost reduction plans, our potential sources of liquidity and managements most recent cash flow forecasts, management believes that we have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our anticipated working capital requirements for our ongoing operations and obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, there can be no assurance that managements cost reduction efforts will be effective or the forecasted cash flows will be achieved. Furthermore, we will continue to evaluate our capital expenditure needs based upon various factors, including but not limited to, our sales from operations, growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts, the timing of new product introductions, and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may borrow up to $2,000,000 from our revolving line of credit with our bank (subject to satisfaction of certain borrowing conditions), may have to sell additional equity or debt securities, or may obtain expanded credit facilities to fund our operating expenses, pay our obligations, diversify our geographical reach, and grow the Company. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. However, if cash flows from operations become insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing were obtained, then management would consider restructuring the Company in a way to preserve its business while maintaining expenses within operating cash flows. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flows: 2023 2022 Net cash (used in) operating activities $ (439,679 ) $ (7,806,025 ) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 1,520,799 $ 3,908,323 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (171,344 ) $ 1,946,553 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2023, we used $439,679 in cash for operating activities, a difference of $7,366,346 when compared to the cash used in operating activities of $7,806,025 during the same period in 2022. The change in cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to cash used in operating activities in the same period in 2022, is primarily a result of a reduction in the use of cash for working 57 capital items of $11,374,024. This reduction in use of working capital was offset by a reduction in profitability from a net loss in 2022 of $2,229,055, to a net loss of $6,716,176 in the current year, a reduction of $4,487,121. Additionally, there were net favorable adjustments in the current period for non-cash items of $479,443, which were comprised of $6,196,922 of favorable non-cash items, inclusive of the write-down for the impairment of goodwill, offset by $5,717,549 of negative non-cash items that did not affect operating cash flow and exclusion of $1,716,727 for the ERC. Net working capital uses for the year ended December 31, 2023, were $1,943,406, as compared to the prior year period uses of working capital of $13,317,430, a reduction in the use of working capital of $11,374,024. The sources of working capital of $3,202,082 were attributable to changes in accounts receivables, accrued expenses and other liabilities for the comparable period. These sources were offset by uses of working capital of $5,145,488 being applied to changes in inventory levels, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and accounts payable. Our ability to generate cash from operations in future periods will depend in large part on our profitability, the rate and timing of collections of our accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital, including accounts payable and accrued expenses. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company generated cash of $1,520,799 in investing activities, as compared to $3,908,323 provided by investing activities during the prior year period in 2022, a net decrease of $2,387,524. The source of investing funds was attributable to the redemption of short-term investments in both years and the sale of the Magma.com URL in the prior year. Additionally, the Company continues to enhance the capabilities of its ERP system, and purchase test equipment for the engineering department. We do not anticipate any significant investments not normally anticipated in the original course of business in the near term. Financing Activities Given the current economic, financial, and geopolitical instability, the Company believes it is imperative to maintain opportunities for additional financial resources to ensure financial stability during trying economic times. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company used $171,344 resulting from funds received in conjunction with the ERC program offset by debt service payments on Bressner borrowings and payment of tax on the net exercise of vested RSUs. During the same period in 2022, the Company generated cash through proceeds from new borrowings for inventory at Bressner. Contractual obligations and commitments The following table sets forth our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023: Contractual Obligations: Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 Years Notes payable $ 2,077,895 $ 2,077,895 $ - $ - $ - Operating leases 2,156,462 390,926 782,989 696,001 286,546 Total $ 4,234,357 $ 2,468,821 $ 782,989 $ 696,001 $ 286,546 We have made certain indemnities, under which we may be required to make payments to an indemnified party, in relation to certain transactions. We indemnify our directors, officers, employees, and agents to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware. In connection with our facilities leases, we indemnify our lessors for certain claims arising from the use of our facilities. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. These indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments we could be obligated to make. Historically, we have not been obligated to make any payments for these obligations and no liabilities have been recorded for these indemnities. 58 Known trends or uncertainties Although we have not seen any significant reduction in revenues to date due to consolidations, we have seen some consolidation in our industry during economic downturns. These consolidations have not had a negative effect on our total sales; however, should consolidations and downsizing in the industry continue to occur, those events could adversely impact our revenues and earnings going forward. We are experiencing delays in funding for customer projects, delays in delivery schedules based upon customer requirements and an extended sales cycle. Additionally, certain of our customers are experiencing downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue, including one customer that declared bankruptcy in 2023, and as a result there is an increased risk that these customers may need to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or payment extensions, or seek to renegotiate their contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company experienced delays and postponements of committed purchases and orders due to certain customers funding or program delays. We have also experienced cancellations of orders due to disruptions in our customers businesses or changes in their business plans. Such delays, postponements and cancellations negatively impacted the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. If such decreases in orders, postponements or cancellations continue in the future, our operating results will be further impacted, and our revenues may decline in future periods. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Company has now completed and fulfilled all of its orders associated with its former long-term media and entertainment customer and does not anticipate additional business from this customer in the future. This resulted from an acceleration in such customers investment in cloud technology and a drive towards less intelligent compute capability at the edge to reduce the costs of their componentry. This customers transition to cloud solutions had a negative impact on the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. With the Company's shifted focus to the development and sale of AI Transportables, we have significantly increased our efforts to penetrate the military and defense sectors in particular, which typically have protracted sales cycles, significant contracting requirements, and multi-year deliverables. With the recent hiring of a new president and chief executive officer and new vice president of sales, each of whom has extensive experience in contracting in the defense industry, we have further increased our emphasis and focus on the pursuit of revenue opportunities with major defense contractors and the military. We have recently reviewed our existing pipeline and have made adjustments to reflect the procurement habits and timing of the military and defense sector. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we have also added relevant defense market experience to our board of directors through the appointment of Mr. Knowles, Vice Admiral Dumont and Mitch Herbets as directors. During 2023, the Company implemented certain internal organizational changes to align our US-based operations with, and to further support and accelerate our strategy to focus on, the AI Transportables industry and our military business. In furtherance of this strategy and our goals, on June 5, 2023, David Raun, then the Companys president and chief executive officer, stepped down from such roles and Michael Knowles was appointed to serve in such roles. Mr. Raun currently continues to serve as a member of the Companys board of directors. Additionally, on July 17, 2023, we hired a new vice president of sales with significant relevant experience. Furthermore, we added two new members with extensive defense experience to our board of directors during the year. We believe that these changes will allow us to further penetrate the defense sector and enhance our business strategies with respect to this target market. The world continues to be affected by the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, and economic uncertainty, amongst other things. Inflation has risen both domestically and internationally, Federal Reserve and European Central Bank interest rates have increased significantly over the last year, though economists are now suggesting that we should expect to see a soft-landing in the U.S. in the foreseeable future. Germany was in a recession for most of 2023, largely due to persistent high inflation and falling household spending. Volatility and recessionary conditions in Europe, and in particular in Germany, are expected to remain a concern for the near term. These factors, amongst other things, could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term, and could negatively affect our operations. We believe that the need for improved productivity in the research and development activities directed toward developing new products and/or software will continue to result in increasing adoption of high-performance computers and interconnect technologies such as those we produce. New product and/or software developments in the specialized compute-business segment could result in increased revenues and earnings if they are accepted by our markets; 59 however, there can be no assurances that new products and/or software will result in significant improvements to revenues or earnings. For competitive reasons, we do not disclose all of our new product development activities. Additionally, the potential for growth in new markets is uncertain. We will continue to explore these opportunities until such time as we either generate sales or determine that resources would be more efficiently used elsewhere. Inflation We experienced some effects due to inflation in both the U.S. and Europe during the most recent period, including increased product pricing due to semiconductor product shortages, increased transportation costs due to increases in the cost of energy and general price increases due to inflation in the economy. Although the Company attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to our customers, the Companys ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Companys products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be fully recovered. These increasing costs are being aggressively managed by the Company and actions are being taken to minimize the impact to the Company, particularly in the purchase of inventories to minimize price increases. Inflation affects the Companys manufacturing costs, distribution costs and operating expenses. Off balance sheet arrangements Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Stockholder transactions See Note 10 to the accompanying financial statements for a discussion regarding our stockholder transactions for the relevant periods. Critical accounting policies and estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management must make a variety of decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. These decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In making these decisions, management applies its judgment based on its understanding and analysis of the relevant circumstances and our historical experience. Our accounting policies and estimates that are most critical to the presentation of our results of operations and financial condition, and which require the greatest use of judgments and estimates by management, are designated as our critical accounting policies. See further discussion of our critical accounting policies under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report. We periodically re-evaluate and adjust our critical accounting policies as circumstances change. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at a point in time when products ship and control is transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (i) identification of the contract with a customer; (ii) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determination of the transaction price; (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. 60 The Companys contracts are executed through a combination of written agreements along with purchase orders with all customers including certain general terms and conditions. Generally, purchase orders entail products, quantities and prices, which define the performance obligations of each party and are approved and accepted by the Company. The Companys contracts with customers do not include extended payment terms. Payment terms vary by contract type and type of customer and generally range from 30 to 60 days from invoice. Additionally, taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, which are collected by the Company from a customer and deposited with the relevant government authority, are excluded from revenue. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer adjusted for estimated variable consideration, if any. Variable consideration may include discounts, rights of return, refunds, and other similar obligations. The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct product and service based on its relative standalone selling price. The standalone selling price for products primarily involves the cost to produce the deliverable plus the anticipated margin and for services is estimated based on the Companys approved list price. In the normal course of business, the Company does not accept product returns unless the items are defective as manufactured. The Company establishes provisions for estimated returns and warranties. In addition, the Company does not typically provide customers with the right to a refund and does not transact for noncash consideration. Customer agreements include one vendor managed inventory program. The Company recognizes revenue under this arrangement when all of the following criteria are met: (i) the goods have been identified separately as belonging to the customer; (ii) the goods are ready for physical shipment to the customer; (iii) the Company does not have the ability to direct the goods to another customer; and (iv) the arrangement was requested by the customer and that the customer has sufficiently explained a substantial business purpose for the arrangement. Management also considers whether the customer's custodial risks are insured and whether modifications to the Company's normal billing and credit terms were required. Revenues on certain fixed-price contracts where we provide engineering services, prototypes and completed products are recognized based upon milestones delivered that are provided during the period and compared to milestone goals to be provided over the entire contract. These services require that we perform significant, extensive, and complex design, development, modification or implementation of our customers systems. Performance will often extend over long periods of time, and our right to receive future payment depends on our future performance in accordance with the agreement. The percentage-of-completion methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed, on a current cumulative cost to estimated total cost basis, using a reasonably consistent profit margin over the performance period. Due to the long-term nature of these projects, developing the estimates of costs often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues and costs, and such revisions are reflected in earnings in the period in which the revision becomes known. The Company recognizes contract assets or unbilled receivables related to revenue recognized for services completed but not yet invoiced to the clients. Unbilled receivables are recorded as accounts receivable when the Company has an unconditional right to contract consideration. A contract liability is recognized as deferred revenue when the Company invoices clients in advance of performing the related services under the terms of a contract. Deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the Company has satisfied the related performance obligation. 61 On certain contracts with several of the Companys significant customers, the Company receives payments in advance of manufacturing. Advanced payments are recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue recognition criteria described above has been met. Related billings that are in excess of revenue earned are deferred and recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet until the related services are provided. Leases On January 1, 2022, the Company adopted ASC 842 using the Transition method. The reported results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, reflect the application of the guidance of ASC 842. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases. A lease must be classified as a finance lease if any of the following criteria are met: the lease transfers ownership of the asset by the end of the lease term, the lease contains an option to purchase the asset that is reasonably certain to be exercised, the lease term is for a major part of the remaining useful life of the asset or the present value of the lease payments equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not meet any of these criteria. The Company determines if a contract is or contains a lease at inception or modification of a contract. A contract is or contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration. Control over the use of the identified asset means the lessee has both (a) the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset and (b) the right to direct the use of the asset. This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Right-of-use assets and liabilities are initially measured at cost, which primarily comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, plus any initial direct costs incurred, consisting mainly of brokerage commissions, less any lease incentives received. All right of use assets are reviewed for impairment. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future minimum lease payments over the expected lease term at the commencement date of each lease. The Company measures and records a right-of-use asset and lease liability based on the discount rate implicit in the lease, if known. Generally, the Company cannot determine the interest rate implicit in the lease because it does not have access to the lessor's estimated residual value or the amount of the lessor's deferred initial direct costs. In these cases where the discount rate implicit in the lease is not known, the Company measures the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities using a discount rate equal to the Company's incremental borrowing rate it pays on current debt instruments or would have to pay on a collateralized basis to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments under similar terms. The Company and its subsidiary have no leases classified as finance leases. The Company and its subsidiary currently lease plant, office facilities and equipment under operating leases expiring through August 2032. The Companys lease agreements may include options to extend the lease following the initial term. On a case-by-case basis, the Companys management determines if it is reasonably certain to exercise the renewal option; such renewal options were included in determining the initial lease term. We elected the package of practical expedients in transition for leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2022, and therefore did not reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts are, or contain, leases, (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (iii) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We elected to use hindsight for transition when considering judgments and estimates such as assessments of lease options to extend, or terminate, a lease, or to purchase the underlying asset. As result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company recognized an accumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the 2022 fiscal year of $44,533. For all asset classes, we elected to (i) not recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less and (ii) not separate non-lease components from lease components, and we have accounted for combined lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. Variable lease payments associated with the Companys leases are recognized upon occurrence of the event, activity, or circumstance in the lease agreement on 62 which those payments are assessed. For those leases that are subsequently modified for terms, such changes may require a remeasurement of the lease liability. Lease expense for operating leases consists of the lease payments plus any initial direct costs, primarily brokerage commissions, and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Included in lease expense are any variable lease payments incurred in the period that were not included in the initial lease liability. Lease expense for finance leases consists of the amortization of the right-of-use asset on a straight-line basis over the lease term and interest expense determined on an amortized cost basis. The lease payments are allocated between a reduction of the lease liability and interest expense. Stock-Based Compensation We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted to our employees and other service providers, including stock options granted under the 2017 Plan, 2015 and 2011 Stock Option Plans that were approved in October 2017 (the "2017 Plan"), December 2015 (the 2015 Plan) and in December 2011 (the 2011 Plan), respectively, based on the estimated fair value of the award. We used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option awards granted under the 2017 Plan, 2015 Plan and 2011 Plan. We recognize the fair value of stock options granted under the 2017 Plan and 2015 Plan as stock-based compensation on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We record expense net of anticipated forfeitures and adjust the annual expense based upon actual experience. Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (RSUs) is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. Our use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. The assumptions used in our option pricing model represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair Value of Common Stock. Since the completion of our IPO, we use the closing quoted price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market on the date of grant. Expected Term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumptions were determined based on the vesting terms and contractual lives of the options, using the simplified method. Expected Volatility. We use the volatility of our own share price. Risk-Free Interest Rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. Dividend Rate. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends and do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and, therefore, use an expected dividend yield of zero. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimation process, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. Inventory Valuation We value our inventory at the lower of cost or its estimated net realizable value. We use the average cost method for purposes of determining cost, which approximates the first-in, first-out method. We write down inventory for excess and obsolescence based upon a review of historical usage and assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses. Actual demand, product mix and alternative usage may be lower than those that we project, and this difference could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin if inventory write-downs beyond those initially recorded become necessary. Alternatively, if actual demand, product mix and alternative usage are more 63 favorable than those we estimated at the time of such a write-down, our gross margin could be favorably impacted in future periods. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets We evaluate our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in overall economic conditions, a decline in our market capitalization, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. Regardless, goodwill is tested for potential impairment at least annually. Income Taxes The determination of income tax expense requires us to make certain estimates and judgments concerning the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as the deductions and credits that are available to reduce taxable income. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. In evaluating our ability to recover deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset will be used for which a reserve has been provided, we reverse the related valuation allowance. If our actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction differs from estimates, additional allowances or reversals of reserves may be necessary. We use a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. First, the tax position must be evaluated to determine the likelihood that it will be sustained upon external examination. If the tax position is deemed more-likely-than-not to be sustained, the tax position is then assessed to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The amount of the benefit that may be recognized is the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any changes to these positions as a result of tax audits, tax laws or other facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to operations. Business Combinations We utilize the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations and allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the various tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. We primarily establish fair value using the income approach based upon a discounted cash flow model. The income approach requires the use of many assumptions and estimates including future revenues and expenses, as well as discount factors and income tax rates. Other estimates include: estimated step-ups or write-downs for fixed assets and inventory; estimated fair values of intangible assets; and estimated income tax assets and liabilities assumed from the target. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the business acquisition date, our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price allocation period, which is generally no longer than one year from the business acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. For changes in the valuation of intangible assets between preliminary and final purchase price allocation, the related amortization is adjusted in the period it occurs. Subsequent to the purchase price allocation period any adjustment to assets acquired or liabilities assumed is included in operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined. Should we issue shares of our common stock in an acquisition, we will be required to estimate the fair value of the shares issued. 64 Recent accounting pronouncements Management has evaluated recent accounting pronouncements through the date of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and believes that the recent accounting pronouncements as disclosed in Note 2 to the financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Recently implemented accounting pronouncements Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which sets out the principles for the recognition of measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. This standard provides guidance on the impairment of financial instruments that is based on expected losses rather than probable or incurred losses. Under this new guidance, the Company will recognize, as an allowance, our estimate of expected credit losses based upon historical and current information, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events and circumstances, as well as estimates of prepayments. Under this model, we are required to estimate the lifetime expected credit loss on such instruments and record an allowance to offset the amortized cost basis of the financial asset, resulting in a net presentation of the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. Accounts receivable have been reduced by an allowance for credit losses. The allowance represents the current estimate of lifetime expected credit losses over the remaining duration of existing accounts receivable after considering current market conditions and supportable forecasts when appropriate. This estimate is a result of management's evaluation of collectability, customer creditworthiness, historical levels of credit losses, and future expectations. The Company shall recognize an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction to the carrying value of the asset for debt securities. To determine credit losses, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily associated with borrowing on revolving lines of credit denominated in both U.S. dollars and Euros. We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities for our variable rate borrowings. Both the Federal Reserve and European Central Bank interest rates have increased significantly recently. Concentration of credit risk At times, deposits held with financial institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), of which both provide basic deposit coverage with limits up to $250,000 per owner. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $250,000 of cash in our accounts that exceeded the insurance limits. The Company has not experienced any such losses in these accounts, and believes that the financial institutions at which such amounts are held are stable; however, no assurances can be provided. In Germany, the deposit insurance is 100,000 per bank, per customer. Bressner has funds on deposit in both Euro and U.S. dollar denominations of 919,664 (US$1,015,214) with banks in excess of the insurance limits. We provide credit to our customers in the normal course of business. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and limit the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary. Foreign currency risk We operate in the United States and Germany. Our primary reporting currency is the United States dollar. Foreign sales of products and services are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We also conduct business outside the United States through Bressner our foreign subsidiary in Germany, where business is largely transacted in non-U.S. dollar currencies, particularly the Euro, which is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure from changes in the exchange rates of local currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. 65 OSS GmbH operates as an extension of OSS domestic operations and acquired Bressner Technology GmbH in October 2018. The functional currency of OSS GmbH is the Euro. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are remeasured to the functional currency at the average exchange rate in effect during the period. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the exchange rates of the currencies may impact the translation of the foreign subsidiaries statements of operations into U.S. dollars, which may in turn affect our consolidated statement of operations. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Derivative financial instruments We may employ derivatives to manage certain currency market risks through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives are designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). We hedge a portion of the exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions. In anticipation of these transactions, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to provide currency at a fixed rate. Non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA We believe that the use of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, is helpful for an investor to assess the performance of the Company. The Company defines adjusted EBITDA as income (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, acquisition expense, impairment of long-lived assets, financing costs, government funded programs, fair value adjustments from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to discontinued operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a companys non-cash operating expenses, we believe that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes non-cash and non-recurring expenses allows for meaningful comparisons between our core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing us with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating our own core business operating results over different periods of time. Our adjusted EBITDA measure may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry, as other companies in our industry may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently, particularly related to non-recurring and unusual items. Our adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income or as an indication of operating performance or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. We do not consider adjusted EBITDA to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (6,716,176 ) $ (2,229,055 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,077,516 1,050,299 Stock-based compensation expense 2,345,358 1,991,117 Interest income (544,958 ) (237,751 ) Interest expense 117,774 162,391 Employee retention credit (ERC) (1,716,727 ) - Impairment of goodwill 5,630,788 - Provision for income taxes 927,128 4,423,597 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,120,703 $ 5,160,598 66 Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS excludes the impact of certain items and, therefore, has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. We believe that exclusion of certain selected items assists in providing a more complete understanding of our underlying results and trends and allows for comparability with our peer company index and industry. We use this measure along with the corresponding GAAP financial measures to manage our business and to evaluate our performance compared to prior periods and the marketplace. The Company defines non-GAAP income (loss) as income or (loss) before amortization, government funded programs, impairment of long lived assets, stock-based compensation, expenses related to discontinued operations, and acquisition costs. Adjusted EPS expresses adjusted income (loss) on a per share basis using weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measures used by other companies. We expect to continue to incur expenses similar to the adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted EPS financial adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. The following table reconciles net loss to adjusted EPS and diluted earnings per share: For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (6,716,176 ) $ (2,229,055 ) Amortization of intangibles 42,154 63,231 Stock-based compensation expense 2,345,358 1,991,117 Employee retention credit (ERC) (1,716,727 ) - Impairment of goodwill 5,630,788 Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (414,603 ) $ (174,707 ) Non-GAAP net (loss) income per share: Basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.01 ) Diluted $ (0.02 ) $ (0.01 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 20,854,777 19,730,698 Diluted 20,854,777 19,730,698 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure for reporting cash flow, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, which includes capitalized software development costs. We believe free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on cash available for investments and acquisitions after making capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long-term value creation. We believe that trends in our free cash flow can be valuable indicators of our operating performance and liquidity. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measures used by other companies. 67 We expect to continue to incur expenditures similar to the free cash flow adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure that these expenditures reflect all of our obligations which require cash. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flow: 2023 2022 Cash used in operating activities $ (439,679 ) $ (7,806,025 ) Capital expenditures (821,753 ) (529,908 ) Free cash flow $ (1,261,432 ) $ (8,335,933 ) 68