Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. The market for our high performance computing (HPC) products is developing and may not develop as we expect. The market for cutting-edge, high performance computing products is characterized by rapid advances in technologies. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to develop products, new business initiatives and creating innovative and custom designs for our customers. The growth of server clusters, specialized or high performance applications, and hosted software solutions which require fast and efficient data processing, is crucial to our success. It is difficult to predict the development of the demand for high performance computing, supercomputers, and related hardware solutions, the size and growth rate for this market, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on several factors, including the demand, cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our products. If our products are not adopted or there is a reduction in demand for our products caused by a lack of customer acceptance, a slowdown in demand for computational power, an overabundance of unused computational power, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early order cancellations, the loss of customers, or decreased sales, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our products are variable and difficult to predict and can result in fluctuations in our net sales from period to period. In addition, our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectation of future sales. Any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of sales is difficult and takes time, thus we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in net sales, and even a small shortfall in net sales could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin and operating results for a given quarter. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control, including the changing and volatile local, national, and international economic environments, any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Besides the other risks in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operations include: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; the inherent complexity, length, and associated unpredictability of product development windows and product lifecycles; changes in customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; changing market conditions; any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; our ability to continue to broaden our customer base beyond our traditional customers; 20 the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; and our ability to develop, introduce, and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers requirements. Each of these factors individually, or the cumulative effect of two or more of these factors, could result in large fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell. Servers, computer accelerators, flash storage arrays, PCIe expansion products, and other products that we design, manufacture, and sell or license are subject to competition. The computer hardware and technology fields are well established with limited, and in many cases no, intellectual property and technological barriers to entry. The markets in which we operate are competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. The markets are influenced by, among others, brand awareness and reputation, price, strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support, product features, reliability and performance, scalability of products, and breadth of product offerings. Due to the nature of our products, competition occurs at the design, performance, and sales stages. A design or sales win by us does not limit further competition and our customers may purchase competitive products from third parties at any time. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. From a cost and control perspective, our products are specialized and thus generally cost more than our competitors products. If our ability to design specialized solutions is deemed to be on par or of lesser value than competing solutions, we could lose our customers and prospects. Many of our customers and competitors, often with substantially more resources or larger economies of scale, produce products that are competitive with our products. Many of these third parties mass-produce hardware solutions and have not heavily invested in or allocated resources to the smaller scale specialized products and solutions we design. A decrease in the cost of general mass-produced hardware solutions, which can serve as a substitute for our products, or the entrance of or additional allocation of resources by one of these customers or competitors into the production of specialized systems which compete with our products could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution, and sale of our high performance computing solutions are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology, new products and new server configurations may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and earn design wins which could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Large computer hardware and equipment manufacturers and suppliers have traditionally designed, produced, and sold general purpose servers, and storage arrays and related products and equipment. Our customers supplement these general purpose systems by purchasing our specialized or customized systems or supplemental products which improve the speed, efficiency, or performance of such systems. If the speed, efficiency, or computational power of such general purpose systems increases such that supplemental or specialized products become unnecessary, or the cost of such general purpose systems declines such that it is more cost effective for prospective customers to add general-purpose equipment rather than specialized or supplemental equipment, we could experience a significant decline in demand for the products which may significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Our products compete with and supplement general purpose servers, storage systems and related equipment. If the producers of general purpose equipment implement proprietary standards, software, interfaces, or other interoperability restrictions, including controls which restrict the equipments compatibility with third party systems, we could experience a significant decline in sales because our products would not be interoperable with such systems, resulting in may significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. In our marketplace, general-purpose equipment is traditionally mass-produced and available to order while specialized equipment and custom bulk-order equipment is subject to a bid-based purchase system. If one or more large manufacturers of general or standard servers storage arrays, or related products and equipment provide specialized, customized, or supplementary equipment on a made-to-order or generally available basis, we could be forced to reduce our prices or change our selling model to remain competitive which would significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. The growth and expansion of our business and product offerings places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Any such future growth would also add complexity to and require effective coordination throughout our organization. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which could damage our reputation and brand and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales. If we were to lose any of these customers, our sales could decrease significantly. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, two customers, disguise (formerly d3) and Raytheon accounted for approximately 61%, and 43% of net sales of OSS, excluding the revenue of the recent acquisitions of CDI and Bressner, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, three customers accounted for 74% of net trade accounts receivable and, as of December 31, 2017, three customers accounted for 69% of net trade accounts receivables, excluding recent acquisitions. A significant portion of revenue for CDI is derived from two customers, Thales and Inflight Canada which represents approximately 67% of its revenue earned since CDIs acquisition on August 31, 2018. Two customers represented 84% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018. Bressner Technologies GmbH has two customers which represent approximately 47% of the Companys revenue earned since their acquisition on October 31, 2018. Two customers represented 61% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018. In addition, a few products comprise a significant amount of our sales, and the discontinuation, modification, or obsolescence of such products may materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Any loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, these other significant customers or a decrease in the high performance applications that drive the use of our products, or the modification, discontinuation, or obsolescence of a device which constitutes a significant portion of our sales could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 22 Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products which we have designed and manufacture for them . Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products which we have designed and manufacture for them. In some cases these drawings are included as a deliverable in conjunction with their non-recurring engineering fee, and in other cases, an additional fee is required to obtain the drawings package. Since these customers have access to the drawings, there is no guarantee that they will continue to purchase the manufactured products from OSS. This arrangement applies to our large media and entertainment customer, several of the customers within the recently acquired CDI business and other customers. Neither our media and entertainment customer, nor our current CDI customers have had any of the OSS-designed products manufactured by anyone other than OSS, but they may have the capability to do so in the future. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with the necessary devices, parts and systems to allow us to build, design and manufacture our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with these parties successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, excluding recent acquisitions, three suppliers, Concisys, Inc., Exact Computers and Supermicro, accounted for approximately 45%, and 48%, respectively, of materials purchased. Although we do believe we could locate additional suppliers to fulfill our needs, any significant change in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition unless and until we are able to find suitable replacements. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract suppliers on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers are not required to supply our raw materials for any specific period or in any specific quantity or price. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers. Our sales depend on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to design new products, anticipate technological improvements and enhancements, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing computer hardware and software industry. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to develop products that offer performance features desired by our customers and performance and functionality superior or more cost effective than solutions offered by our competitors. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected, and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure that product introductions will meet our anticipated release schedules or that our products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the rapidly changing nature of the computer equipment market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies. Delays in our production cycle could result in outdated equipment or decreased purchases of our products. The design and manufacture of our products can take several months to several years. The length of such process depends on the complexity and purpose of the system or equipment being designed, and may be affected by factors such as: the development and design of unique or specialized systems, the fabrication, availability, and supply of parts, the customization of parts as applicable, the manufacture and/or assembly of the units, quality control testing, and the development and incorporation of new technologies. If our products are outdated upon completion of this process our sales could materially decline and it may be necessary to sell products at a loss. 23 Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. We design and manufacture certain products to fit the specifications of government programs or OEM contracts. These programs may take months or years to complete and involve significant investment of our time, money and resources. We generally receive upfront fees for these programs but there is often no or little obligation on the part of our customer to purchase large volumes of products at the time of final product launch. Unsuccessful product launches could lead to reduced revenues, potential returns of products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be forced to sell products at a loss or spend a significant amount of resources to find additional customers for these products if these programs do not fit the future needs of our intended customers. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. Sales cycles for some of our products can take several months. In addition, it can take time from the bid to the development and manufacture of the equipment. We maintain inventory based in large part on our forecasts of the volume and timing of orders. The varying length of the sales cycles makes accurate forecasting difficult. The delays inherent in our sales cycles raise the risk that the inventory we have on hand will become obsolete or impaired prior to its use or sale. If our forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders, we may be required to write off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory, based on a reduced sales price. A write off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. An unexpected change in failure rates of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. We offer product warranties that generally extend for one year from date of sale that requires us to repair or replace defective products returned by the customer during the warranty period at no cost to the customer. Our product warranties are in addition to warranties we receive from our vendors. We record an estimate for anticipated warranty-related costs at the time of sale based on historical and estimated future product return rates and expected repair or replacement costs. While such costs have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established and we receive warranty coverage from our vendors, unexpected changes in failure rates could have a material adverse impact on our business requiring additional warranty reserves. These failures could adversely impact our operating results. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. Achieving design wins is an important success factor for our business. We work closely with OEMs and end users to insure the customer gets the product they want in the specific configuration, size and weight required for the application. We have participated in many design wins based upon our ability to interpret technical specifications and proceed rapidly through prototyping, development, and delivery. This approach and expertise is one of the factors driving our growth. Failure to maintain our expertise and ability to deliver custom, specific design systems could harm our business. In order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that OEMs, customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. 24 If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key technical management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. We have lost key personnel to other high technology companies, and many larger companies with significantly greater resources than us have aggressively recruited, and continue to aggressively recruit, key personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or restricted stock units. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive enough. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to, and have had to, increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in successfully integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, offerings and personnel of the acquired company or companies; insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles; difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Acquisitions may also cause us to: use a substantial portion of our cash reserves or incur debt; issue equity securities or grant equity incentives to acquired employees that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership; assume liabilities, including potentially unknown liabilities; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; or become subject to intellectual property litigation or other litigation. Acquisitions of high-technology companies and assets are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our recently completed or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. 25 The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, such as processors, interconnects, flash storage and other infrastructure, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, as well as the potential for integration of differentiated technology into already-commoditized components, has resulted in, and may result in increased pricing pressure that may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive, which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results. Our election to not opt out of the extended accounting transition period under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, may make our financial statements difficult to compare to other companies. Under the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we can elect to opt out of the extended transition period for any new or revised accounting standards that may be issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period. This means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, are permitted to use any extended transition period for adoption that is provided in the new or revised accounting standard having different application dates for public and private companies. This may make the comparison of our financial statements with any other public company, which is not either an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period, difficult or impossible as possible different or revised standards may be used. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In addition, because of our status as an emerging growth company, you will not be able to depend on any attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal control over financial reporting for the foreseeable future. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess disclosure