Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry A reversal of the U.S. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business or our access to capital markets in a material manner. Worsening economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could severely reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, which could affect our ability to secure product to meet our customers demand. Our results of operations and the implementation of our business strategy could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy. An economic downturn may cause uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and could have a material adverse effect on us. We could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates, weak economies, and political conditions in each of the countries in which we sell our products. The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. The market for cutting-edge, high performance computing products is characterized by rapid advances in technologies. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to develop products, new business initiatives and creating innovative and custom designs for our customers. The growth of server clusters, specialized or high-performance applications, and hosted software solutions which require fast and efficient data processing, is crucial to our success. It is difficult to predict the development of the demand for high performance computing, supercomputers, and related hardware solutions, the size and growth rate for this market, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on several factors, including the demand, cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our products. If our products are not adopted or there is a reduction in demand for our products caused by a lack of customer acceptance, a slowdown in demand for computational power, an overabundance of unused computational power, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early order cancellations, the loss of customers, or decreased sales, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our products are variable and difficult to predict and can result in fluctuations in our net sales from period to period. In addition, our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectation of future sales. Any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of sales is difficult and takes time, thus we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in net sales, and even a small shortfall in net sales could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin and operating results for a given quarter. 22 Our operating results may also fluc tuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control, including the changing and volatile local, national, and international economic environments, any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Besides the other risks in th is Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operations include: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; the inherent complexity, length, and associated unpredictability of product development windows and product lifecycles; changes in customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; changing market conditions; any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; our ability to continue to broaden our customer base beyond our traditional customers; the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; and our ability to develop, introduce, and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers requirements. Each of these factors individually, or the cumulative effect of two or more of these factors, could result in large fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell. Servers, computer accelerators, flash storage arrays, PCIe expansion products, and other products that we design, manufacture, and sell or license are subject to competition. The computer hardware and technology fields are well established with limited, and in many cases no, intellectual property and technological barriers to entry. The markets in which we operate are competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. The markets are influenced by, among others, brand awareness and reputation, price, strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support, product features, reliability and performance, scalability of products, and breadth of product offerings. Due to the nature of our products, competition occurs at the design, performance, and sales stages. A design or sales win by us does not limit further competition and our customers may purchase competitive products from third parties at any time. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. From a cost and control perspective, our products are specialized and thus generally cost more than our competitors products. If our ability to design specialized solutions is deemed to be on par or of lesser value than competing solutions, we could lose our customers and prospects. Many of our customers and competitors, often with substantially more resources or larger economies of scale, produce products that are competitive with our products. Many of these third parties mass-produce hardware solutions and have not heavily invested in or allocated resources to the smaller scale specialized products and solutions we design. A decrease in the cost of general mass-produced hardware solutions, which can serve as a substitute for our products, or the entrance of or additional allocation of resources by one of these customers or competitors into the production of specialized systems which compete with our products could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution, and sale of our high-performance computing solutions are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology, new products and new server configurations may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and earn design wins which could create increased 23 pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Large computer hardware and equipment manufacturers and suppliers have traditionally designed, produced, and sold general purpose servers, and storage arrays and related products and equipment. Our customers supplement these general purpose systems by purchasing our specialized or customized systems or supplemental products which improve the speed, efficiency, or performance of such systems. If the speed, efficiency, or computational power of such general purpose systems increases such that supplemental or specialized products become unnecessary, or the cost of such general purpose systems declines such that it is more cost effective for prospective customers to add general-purpose equipment rather than specialized or supplemental equipment, we could experience a significant decline in demand for the products which may significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products compete with and supplement general purpose servers, storage systems and related equipment. If the producers of general purpose equipment implement proprietary standards, software, interfaces, or other interoperability restrictions, including controls which restrict the equipments compatibility with third party systems, we could experience a significant decline in sales because our products would not be interoperable with such systems, resulting in significant harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. In our marketplace, general-purpose equipment is traditionally mass-produced and available to order while specialized equipment and custom bulk-order equipment is subject to a bid-based purchase system. If one or more large manufacturers of general or standard servers storage arrays, or related products and equipment provide specialized, customized, or supplementary equipment on a made-to-order or generally available basis, we could be forced to reduce our prices or change our selling model to remain competitive which would significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. The growth and expansion of our business and product offerings places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Any such future growth would also add complexity to and require effective coordination throughout our organization. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which could damage our reputation and brand, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales. If we were to lose any of these customers, our sales could decrease significantly. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately 35%, and 53% of net sales represent customers which are greater than 10% of our consolidated annual revenue. This concentration is with two customers, disguise and Raytheon. In addition, a few products comprise a significant amount of our sales, and the discontinuation, modification, or obsolescence of such products may materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Any loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, these other significant customers or a decrease in the high performance applications that drive the use of our products, or the modification, discontinuation, or obsolescence of a device which constitutes a significant portion of our sales could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 24 Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products which we have designed and manufacture for the m. Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products which we have designed and manufactured for them. In some cases, these drawings are included as a deliverable in conjunction with their non-recurring engineering fee, and in other cases, an additional fee is required to obtain the drawings package. Since these customers have access to the drawings, there is no guarantee that they will continue to purchase the manufactured products from OSS. This arrangement applies to our large media and entertainment customer, several of the customers within the recently acquired CDI business and other customers. Neither our media and entertainment customer, nor our current CDI customers have had any of the OSS-designed products manufactured by anyone other than OSS, but they may have the capability to do so in the future. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with the necessary devices, parts and systems to allow us to build, design and manufacture our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with these parties successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. In the years ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, suppliers for which purchases represent greater than 10% of our total parts purchases accounted for approximately 11%, and 37%, respectively, of materials purchased. This concentration is with two suppliers, Concisys Inc., and Exact Computers. Although we do believe we could locate additional suppliers to fulfill our needs, any significant change in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition unless and until we are able to find suitable replacements. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract suppliers on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers are not required to supply our raw materials for any specific period or in any specific quantity or price. Global pandemics or other disasters or public health concerns in regions of the world where we have operations or source material or sell products, such as outbreaks of novel coronavirus or H1N1 flu could result in the disruption of our business. Specifically, the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in increased travel restrictions and extended shutdowns of certain businesses in the region. These or any governmental developments or health concerns in China or other countries in which we operate could result in social, economic, or labor instability. Although we are monitoring the situation regularly, it is currently unknown whether the outbreak will continue to disrupt our product shipments or impact manufacturing in the region over a prolonged period. If such disruption were to extend over a prolonged period, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial results. Any disruption resulting from similar events could also cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to resume normalized operations and this could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers. Our sales depend on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to design new products, anticipate technological improvements and enhancements, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing computer hardware and software industry. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to develop products that offer performance features desired by our customers and performance and functionality superior or more cost effective than solutions offered by our competitors. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected, and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure that product introductions will meet our anticipated release schedules or that our products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the rapidly changing nature of the computer equipment market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies. 25 Delays in our production cycle could result in outdated equipment or decreased purchases of our products. The design and manufacture of our products can take several months to several years. The length of such process depends on the complexity and purpose of the system or equipment being designed, and may be affected by factors such as: the development and design of unique or specialized systems, the fabrication, availability, and supply of parts, the customization of parts as applicable, the manufacture and/or assembly of the units, quality control testing, and the development and incorporation of new technologies. If our products are outdated upon completion of this process our sales could materially decline and it may be necessary to sell products at a loss. Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. We design and manufacture certain products to fit the specifications of government programs or OEM contracts. These programs may take months or years to complete and involve significant investment of our time, money and resources. We generally receive upfront fees for these programs but there is often no or little obligation on the part of our customer to purchase large volumes of products at the time of final product launch. Unsuccessful product launches could lead to reduced revenues, potential returns of products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be forced to sell products at a loss or spend a significant amount of resources to find additional customers for these products if these programs do not fit the future needs of our intended customers. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. Sales cycles for some of our products can take several months or longer. In addition, it can take time from the bid to the development and manufacture of the equipment. We maintain inventory based in large part on our forecasts of the volume and timing of orders. The varying length of the sales cycles makes accurate forecasting difficult. The delays inherent in our sales cycles raise the risk that the inventory we have on hand will become obsolete or impaired prior to its use or sale. If our forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders, we may be required to write off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory, based on a reduced sales price. A write off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. An unexpected change in failure rates of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. We offer product warranties that generally extend for one year from date of sale that requires us to repair or replace defective products returned by the customer during the warranty period at no cost to the customer. Our product warranties are in addition to warranties we receive from our vendors. We record an estimate for anticipated warranty-related costs at the time of sale based on historical and estimated future product return rates and expected repair or replacement costs. While such costs have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established and we receive warranty coverage from our vendors, unexpected changes in failure rates could have a material adverse impact on our business requiring additional warranty reserves. These failures could adversely impact our operating results. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. Achieving design wins is an important success factor for our business. We work closely with OEMs and end users to ensure the customer gets the product they want in the specific configuration, size and weight required for the application. We have participated in many design wins based upon our ability to interpret technical specifications and proceed rapidly through prototyping, development, and delivery. This approach and expertise are two of the factors driving our growth. Failure to maintain our expertise and ability to deliver custom, specific design systems could harm our business. In order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that OEMs, customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. 26 Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our custo mers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key technical management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. We have lost key personnel to other high technology companies, and many larger companies with significantly greater resources than us having aggressively recruited, and continue to aggressively recruit, key personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or restricted stock units. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive enough. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to, and have had to, increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in successfully integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, offerings and personnel of the acquired company or companies; insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles; difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Acquisitions may also cause us to: use a substantial portion of our cash reserves or incur debt; issue equity securities or grant equity incentives to acquired employees that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership; assume liabilities, including potentially unknown liabilities; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; or become subject to intellectual property litigation or other litigation. 27 Acquisitions of high-technology companies and assets are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our recently complete d or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results . The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, such as processors, interconnects, flash storage and other infrastructure, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, as well as the potential for integration of differentiated technology into already-commoditized components, has resulted in, and may result in increased pricing pressure that may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive, which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results. Our election to not opt out of the extended accounting transition period under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, may make our financial statements difficult to compare to other companies. Under the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we can elect to opt out of the extended transition period for any new or revised accounting standards that may be issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period. This means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, are permitted to use any extended transition period for adoption that is provided in the new or revised accounting standard having different application dates for public and private companies. Thus, the comparison of our financial statements with any other public company, which is not either an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period, difficult or impossible as possible different or revised standards may be used. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary design and intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. For example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our trade secrets and/or proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and managements attention, and there can be no assurance we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our trade secrets and/or intellectual property. Many of our proprietary designs are in digital form and the breach of our computer systems could result in these designs being stolen. If our cybersecurity measures are breached or unauthorized access to private or proprietary data is otherwise obtained, our proprietary designs could be stolen. Because we hold many of these designs in digital form on our servers, there exists an inherent risk that an unauthorized third party could conduct a cybersecurity breach resulting in the theft of our proprietary information. While we have taken cybersecurity steps to protect our proprietary information, because 28 techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our competitive edge and our ability to obtain new customers thereby adversely affecting our financial resul ts. Our proprietary designs are susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. Much of the value of our proprietary rights is derived from our vast library of design specifications. While we consider our design specifications to be protected by various proprietary, trade secret and intellectual property laws, such information is susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. We may not be able to prevent our competitors from developing competing design specifications and the cost of enforcing these rights may be significant. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary designs our financial condition and operating results could suffer. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. We consider trade secrets, including confidential and unpatented know-how and designs important to the maintenance of our competitive position. We protect trade secrets and confidential and unpatented know-how, in part, by customarily entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to such knowledge, such as our employees, outside technical and commercial collaborators, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to maintain confidentiality and assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property or trade secret rights could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. As the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. Intellectual property or trade secret claims against us, and any resulting lawsuits, may result in our incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert managements time and attention. We are generally obligated to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products, which could force us to incur substantial costs. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these channel partners and end-customers, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund amounts they have paid to us. Our channel partners and other end-customers in the future may seek indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought. 29 Risks Related to Our International Operations Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having international operations; reliance on channel partners; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; compliance with foreign laws and regulations; compliance with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing rights abroad. Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international sales or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition and growth prospects. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Our products are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our products must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we violate these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our channel partners, agents or consultants fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Changes in our products or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may also create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, prevent our end-customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such laws and regulations, could also result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards in the United States or internationally related to our suppliers products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Our suppliers products are subject to governmental regulations in many jurisdictions. To achieve and maintain market acceptance, our suppliers products must continue to comply with these regulations and many industry standards. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, our suppliers may have to modify their products. The failure of their products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. Supplier uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for HPC products, including our products. Moreover, channel partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. We have international operations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the 30 purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Practices in the local business communities of many countries outside the United States have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us fro m potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect o n our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock will depend on several factors, including those described in this Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock since you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; failure of financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any major change in our management; general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. 31 In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for techn ology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, politi cal and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes, may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market prices of particular companies securities, securities class action litigations have often been instituted against these companies. Litigation of this type, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders have substantial control over the Company and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 25.1% of our outstanding common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of February 29, 2020. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company; impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our company, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We anticipate having limited analyst coverage and we may continue to have inadequate analyst coverage in the future. Even if we obtain adequate analyst coverage, we would have no control over such analysts or the content and opinions in their reports. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our company and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more equity research analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Substantial future sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of shares of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. As of February 29, 2020, we have 16,459,457 shares of our common stock outstanding. Moreover, certain holders of our common stock will have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. 32 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and up to 50,000,000 shares of authorized common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be affected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the president; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; and, provide that vacancies on our board of directors may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation specifies that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations. If our available cash balances and anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, due to lower demand for our products as a result of other risks described in this Risk Factors section, we may seek to raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations or licensing arrangements. 33 We may also consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, pursue strategic investments, take advantage of financing opportunities, or other reasons. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these actions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things: exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more, (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1.07 billion in non-convertible debt or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Our corporate headquarters are in a leased space comprising approximately 29,342 square feet in Escondido, California under a lease that was modified in February 2020 and expires in August 2024. We also lease a 3,208 square foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah that houses our Ion software development team that expires in August 2020. CDI is the lessee of approximately 12,000 square feet located in Irvine, California with the lease expiring in June 2021. Bressner Technology, which was acquired in October 2018, leases space comprising 8,073 square feet on a month-to-month lease. 34 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDIN GS . We are subject to litigation, claims, investigations and audits arising from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. However, at this time, we are not aware of any material pending, threatened or unasserted claims. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DIS CLOSURES. Not Applicable. 35 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information Our common stock, par value $0.0001, has been publicly traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol OSS since our initial public offering on February 1, 2018, which was completed at an offering price to the public of $5.00 per share. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. Due to the fact that our common stock has only been traded on a public market since February 1, 2018, we have only set forth quarterly information with respect to the high and low sale prices for our common stock for such time period. Year ended December 31, 2020 High Low First Quarter (through February 29, 2020) $ 3.01 $ 1.93 * * On March 23, 2020, the closing price was $1.03 2019 2018 Year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 High Low High Low First Quarter (beginning February 1, 2018) $ 3.09 $ 1.78 $ 6.25 $ 4.40 Second Quarter $ 2.75 $ 1.52 $ 5.00 $ 4.10 Third Quarter $ 3.04 $ 1.32 $ 4.75 $ 3.20 Fourth Quarter $ 3.25 $ 1.62 $ 3.99 $ 1.81 Holders As of February 29, 2020, there were 16,459,457 shares of our common stock outstanding held by approximately 2,750 holders of record of our common stock. This number was derived from our stockholder records and does not include beneficial holders of our common stock whose shares are held in street name with various dealers, clearing agencies, banks, brokers and other fiduciaries. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Equity Compensation Plan Information See Part III, Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. 36 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. Not Applicable. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and operating results together with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or in other parts of this Annual Report. Overview OSS designs, manufactures and markets custom high-speed computing systems for high-performance edge computing (HPC) applications. These applications require ultra-fast processing power and the ability to quickly access and store ever-growing data sets. Systems are built using the latest GPU (graphical processing unit) and solid-state flash (memory) technologies. We are a niche provider of HPC custom servers, compute accelerators, and flash storage arrays. We deliver this technology to customers through sale of equipment and software to customers. Concept Development Inc., (CDI) which was acquired on August 31, 2018, specializes in the design and manufacture of specialized high-performance in-flight entertainment systems for commercial aircraft. CDIs capabilities include electrical, mechanical and software design as well as extensive experience in test and certifications required for airborne systems. Bressner Technology GmbH, (Bressner) which was acquired on October 31, 2018, provides standard and customized servers, panel PCs, and PCIe expansion systems. Bressner provides manufacturing, test, sales and marketing services for customers throughout Europe. Business Developments On July 15, 2016, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of Mission Technology Group, Inc. (Magma). Magma designs, manufactures, and markets industrial grade computer systems and components and operates out of our main facility in Escondido, California. On April 6, 2017, we formed SkyScale, LLC (SkyScale), a High-Performance Computing as a Service (HPCaaS) provider to offer customers world-class, ultra-fast, multi-GPU hardware platforms in the cloud. SkyScale was jointly owned with Jacoma Investments, LLC, an entity controlled by our board member Jack Harrison. In accordance with the terms of the operating agreement, Jacoma Investments, LLC agreed to contribute $750,000 in capital and we agreed to contribute $750,000 in the form of credits to purchase equipment, personnel or support services. Each of us received a 50% membership interest. On December 31, 2018, as a result of changes in the competitive landscape and downward pressure on pricing from large competitors, the members to the joint venture agreement agreed to begin the dissolution of SkyScale. On May 9, 2017, we entered into an agreement to acquire the source code license to the Ion flash array software from Western Digital. We plan to continue to develop and sell Ion software with our high-density storage arrays, as well as servicing existing Western Digital software users. OSS Ion software works with our all-flash storage systems, and provides them with a critical point of differentiation with respect to speed and throughput. The OSS Ion software leverages flash storage and open server hardware to accelerate applications and SAN performance through sharing or clustering high-speed all-flash storage arrays. The software supports many major OEM servers and provides an intuitive interface for system users to manage its many features. Having the Ion software source code and engineering team on-board allows us to strategically grow our all-flash storage business in the many Big Data and HPC markets going forward. On July 1, 2017, we entered in to a Service Agreement with Western Digital to service their existing customer base that utilizes Ion flash storage software. Additionally, we purchased certain equipment from Western Digital and hired selected employees to assist in the servicing of these existing customers. 37 On December 18, 2017, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 with the SEC related to a firm commitment underwritten initial public offering of the Companys common stock, par value $0.0001 per share. The initial public offering was declared effective by the SEC on J anuary 31, 2018. The Company commenced trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol OSS on February 1, 2018. On February 5, 2018, the Company closed the initial public offering selling an aggregate of 3,800,000 shares of common stock at a pric e to the public of $5.00 for total gross proceeds to the Company of $19,000,000, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $1,330,000 and underwriter offering-related transaction costs of $185,000, the Company received net pro ceeds of $17,485,000. On February 1, 2018, the Company issued warrants to purchase 380,000 shares of common stock at a price of $6.00 to Roth Capital Partners LLC. Subsequent to completion of the Companys initial public offering in February 2018, the Company used proceeds to pay down the outstanding standing balance of our line of credit of $2,758,517 and other debt obligations $1,096,343. On February 9, 2018, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option to purchase an additional 200,000 shares of common stock at the public offering price of $5.00 per share of which 100,000 newly issued shares of common stock were purchased directly from the Company and 100,000 shares were sold by our former CEOs family trust as selling stockholder. The Company received gross proceeds of $500,000, which resulted in net proceeds of $465,000 to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $35,000. On August 31, 2018, the Company acquired Concept Development Inc. (CDI) located in Irvine, California for cash of $646,759, and common stock of $4,194,673 (Note 3). CDI specializes in the design and manufacture of custom high-performance computing systems for airborne in-flight entertainment systems. On October 31, 2018, the Companys wholly-owned German subsidiary, OSS GmbH, acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Bressner Technology GmbH, a Germany limited liability company located near Munich, Germany, from its principal owners for cash consideration of 4,725,000 (US$5,374,582) and stock consideration of 106,463 newly-issued restricted shares of the Companys common stock. In April 2019, certain members of the Companys Board of Directors executed definitive agreements to commit funds of up to $4,000,000 as a credit facility. The Company initially borrowed $1,150,000 from members of the Board of Directors and $350,000 from other shareholders for a two year period at an interest rate of 9.5% which requires the Company to make monthly principal and interest payment of $69,000 per month. In connection with these loans, the Company issued the note holders warrants to purchase shares of the Companys common stock equal to 10% of the original principal as a price per share equal to $2.15 per share. Accordingly, the Company issued to the note holders warrants to purchase 69,766 share of the Companys common stock. The relative fair value of the warrants issued was $60,158. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company sold 1,554,832 shares of common stock through this offering for total gross proceeds of $2,700,714, which resulted in net proceeds to the company of $2,488,148, after deducting compensation payable to Noble of $55,127 and other expenses of $157,439. The Equity Distribution Agreement was terminated on August 26, 2019. In December 2019, a strain of coronavirus surfaced in China. As a result, there have been numerous factory closures. While many factories were closed for a few days because of the Chinese New Year holiday, the Chinese government ordered that businesses in various areas extend the Chinese New Year holiday due to the coronavirus outbreak and it is possible that the Chinese government will announce new closures in the future. Some of our suppliers in China as well as other locations throughout the world have similarly been affected and experienced closures and risks of labor shortages. If our suppliers experience additional closures in the future, we may have difficulty sourcing materials necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments, which will negatively affect our revenues. Even if we are able to find alternate sources for such materials, they may cost more, which will affect our profitability. If our suppliers in China and other Asian markets experience additional closures in the future and are not able to accept orders or if they delay or cancel such orders, our revenues will be negatively affected. At this point in time, there is significant uncertainty relating to the potential effect of the coronavirus on our business. Infections may become more widespread and there might be additional factory closures in the future, all of which will have a negative impact on our 38 business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, as a result of significant changes in the world wide capital markets and general business climate, the impact on the future demand for our products is unknown at this time. On February 15, 2020, Steve Cooper was terminated as President and CEO of One Stop Systems, Inc., and was replaced by David Raun who has become interim CEO of the Company. Our Business Model OSS designs, manufactures and sells specialized high-performance edge computing (HPC) systems to customers world-wide. We differentiate ourselves from other suppliers of HPC solutions by utilizing our high-performance expertise in custom systems design and PCIe expansion to build systems with a greater quantity of PCIe add-in slots, GPU-based compute cards and/or flash cards. Our systems offer industry leading capabilities that occupy less physical space and power consumption. Components of Results of Operations Revenue On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the new accounting standard update ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP, to all contracts using the modified retrospective method. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at a point in time when products ship and control is transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. The Companys contracts are executed through a combination of written agreements along with purchase orders with all customers including certain general terms and conditions. Generally, purchase orders entail products, quantities and prices, which define the performance obligations of each party and are approved and accepted by the Company. The Companys contracts with customers do not include extended payment terms. Payment terms vary by contract type and type of customer and generally range from 30 to 60 days from invoice. Additionally, taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer and deposited with the relevant government authority, are excluded from revenue. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer adjusted for estimated variable consideration, if any. Variable consideration may include discounts, rights of return, refunds, and other similar obligations. The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct product and service based on its relative standalone selling price. The standalone selling price for products primarily involves the cost to produce the deliverable plus the anticipated margin and for services is estimated based on the Companys approved list price. In the normal course of business, the Company does not accept product returns unless the items are defective as manufactured. The Company establishes provisions for estimated returns and warranties. In addition, the Company does not typically provide customers with the right to a refund and does not transact for noncash consideration. Customer agreements include one vendor managed inventory program. The Company recognizes revenue under this arrangement when all of the following criteria are met: (i) the goods have been identified separately as belonging to the customer; (ii) the goods are ready for physical shipment to the customer; (iii) the Company does not have the ability to direct the goods to another customer; and (iv) the arrangement was requested by the customer and that the customer has sufficiently explained a substantial business purpose for the arrangement. Management also considers whether the customer's custodial risks are insured and whether modifications to the Company's normal billing and credit terms were required. 39 Revenues on certain fixe d-price contracts where we provide engineering services, prototypes and completed products are recognized over the contract term based upon percentage of completion or based upon milestones delivered that are provided during the period and compared to mile stone goals to be provided over the entire contract. These services require that we perform significant, extensive and complex design, development, modification or implementation of our customers systems. Performance will often extend over long periods of time, and our right to receive future payment depends on our future performance in accordance with the agreement. The percentage-of-completion methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed, on a current cumulative cost to estimated total cost basis, using a reasonably consistent profit margin over the period. Due to the long-term nature of these projects, developing the estimates of costs often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues and costs, and such revisions are reflected in earnings in the period in which the revision becomes known. On certain contracts with several of the Companys significant customers, the Company receives payments in advance of manufacturing. Advanced payments are recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue recognition criteria described above has been met. Related billings that are in excess of revenue earned are deferred and recorded as a liability on the balance sheet until the related services are provided. The Company recognizes revenues for non-refundable, upfront implementation fees on a straight-line basis over the period beginning with initiation of ongoing services through the end of the contract term. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs of materials, costs paid to third-party contract manufacturers (which may include the costs of components), and personnel costs associated with manufacturing and support operations. Personnel costs consist of wages, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation expenses. Cost of revenue also includes freight, allocated overhead costs and inventory write-offs and changes to our inventory and warranty reserves. Allocated overhead costs consist of certain facilities and utility costs. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars with an improvement in margin, as product revenue increases. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative, sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Salaries and personnel-related costs, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant components of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities and utility costs. General and Administrative - General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and fees for third-party professional services, as well as allocated overhead. For 2018, general and administrative expenses include the costs related to the dissolution of SkyScale, LLC. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in growing the business. Sales and Marketing - Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel and entertainment expenses as well as allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, tradeshows, events, corporate communications and brand-building activities. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our sales force, increase marketing resources, and further develop sales channels. 40 Research and Development - Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, prototype expenses, depreciation associated with assets acquired for research and development, third-party e ngineering and contractor support costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in new and existing products. Other Income (Expense), net Other income consists of income received for activities outside of our core business. This includes interest income from investments and finance charges from customers. Other expense includes expenses for activities outside of our core business. These expenses consist primarily of loan amortization and interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of estimated income taxes due to the United States and German governments as well as state tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we conduct business, along with the change in our deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Results of Operations Results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 include Magma, SkyScale (through December 31, 2018 dissolution date), the Ion business from Western Digital on July 1, 2017, Concept Development Inc., which was acquired on August 31, 2018, and Bressner Technology GmbH, which was acquired on October 31, 2018. Accordingly, the periods presented below are not directly comparable. After the completion of four quarters, these businesses for both revenue and expense reporting will be treated as organic operating activity for current and comparable historical periods. The following tables set forth our results of continued operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively, presented in dollars and as percentage of net revenue. The following tables set forth our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively, presented in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue. For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Revenue $ 58,308,019 $ 37,027,382 Cost of revenue 38,905,756 25,692,658 Gross profit 19,402,263 11,334,724 Operating expenses: General and administrative 8,501,572 6,513,298 Impairment of goodwill 1,697,394 - Marketing and selling 5,138,762 3,995,258 Research and development 4,843,554 4,001,757 Total operating expenses 20,181,282 14,510,313 Loss from operations (779,019 ) (3,175,589 ) Other income (expense): Interest expense (165,560 ) (65,693 ) Other income (expense), net 281,494 271,878 Total other income, net 115,934 206,185 Loss before income taxes (663,085 ) (2,969,404 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 237,252 (1,396,784 ) Net loss $ (900,337 ) $ (1,572,620 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest $ - $ (436,342 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (900,337 ) $ (1,136,278 ) 41 For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 66.7 % 69.4 % Gross profit 33.3 % 30.6 % Operating expenses: General and administrative 14.6 % 17.6 % Impairment of goodwill 2.9 % 0.0 % Marketing and selling 8.8 % 10.8 % Research and development 8.3 % 10.8 % Total operating expenses 34.6 % 39.2 % Loss from operations -1.3 % -8.6 % Other income (expense): Interest expense -0.3 % -0.2 % Other income (expense), net 0.5 % 0.7 % Total other income, net 0.2 % 0.6 % Loss before income taxes -1.1 % -8.0 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.4 % -3.8 % Net loss -1.5 % -4.2 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.0 % -1.2 % Net loss attributable to common stockholders -1.5 % -3.1 % Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA We believe that the use of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, is helpful for an investor to assess the performance of the Company. The Company defines adjusted EBITDA as income (loss) attributable to common stockholders before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, acquisition expense, impairment of long-lived assets, financing costs, fair value adjustments from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to discontinued operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a companys non-cash operating expenses, we believe that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes non-cash and non-recurring expenses allows for meaningful comparisons between our core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing us with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating our own core business operating results over different periods of time. 42 Our adjusted EBITDA measure may not p rovide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry, as other companies in our industry may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently, particularly related to non-recurring and unusual items. Our adjust ed EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income or as an indication of operating performance or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. We do n ot consider adjusted EBITDA to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (900,337 ) $ (1,136,278 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,655,288 1,350,329 Amortization of debt discount 21,303 24,830 Amortization of deferred gain (57,675 ) (134,640 ) Impairment of goodwill 1,697,394 - Stock-based compensation expense 649,469 527,335 Interest expense 165,560 65,693 Interest income (151,113 ) (85,710 ) Cost resulting from dissolution of SkyScale (146,150 ) 705,309 Acquisition expenses (1) 4,075 664,394 Benefit for income taxes 237,252 (1,396,784 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,175,066 $ 584,478 (1) Expenses incurred in the acquisition of CDI and Bressner. Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS excludes the impact of certain items and, therefore, has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. We believe that exclusion of certain selected items assists in providing a more complete understanding of our underlying results and trends and allows for comparability with our peer company index and industry. We use this measure along with the corresponding GAAP financial measures to manage our business and to evaluate our performance compared to prior periods and the marketplace. The Company defines non-GAAP (loss) income attributable to common stockholders as (loss) or income before amortization, stock-based compensation, expenses related to discontinued operations, and acquisition costs. Adjusted EPS expresses adjusted (loss) income on a per share basis using weighted average diluted shares outstanding. 43 Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measu res used by other companies. We expect to continue to incur expenses similar to the adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted EPS financial adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of these non-GAAP fi nancial measures that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. The following table reconciles net loss attributable to common stockholders and diluted earnings per share: For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (900,337 ) $ (1,136,278 ) Amortization of intangibles 984,065 630,258 Impairment of goodwill 1,697,394 - Stock-based compensation expense 649,469 527,335 Cost resulting from dissolution of SkyScale (146,150 ) 705,309 Acquisition expenses 4,075 664,394 Non-GAAP net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2,288,516 $ 1,391,018 Non-GAAP net income per share attributable to common stockholders: Basic $ 0.15 $ 0.11 Diluted $ 0.14 $ 0.10 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 15,148,613 12,586,513 Diluted 16,158,627 13,741,343 Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure for reporting cash flow, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, which includes capitalized software development costs. We believe free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on cash available for investments and acquisitions after making capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long-term value creation. We believe that trends in our free cash flow can be valuable indicators of our operating performance and liquidity. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measures used by other companies. We expect to continue to incur expenditures similar to the free cash flow adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure that these expenditures reflect all of our obligations which require cash. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flow: 2019 2018 Change Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,374,868 $ (3,890,786 ) $ 6,265,654 Capital expenditures (2,386,227 ) (623,166 ) (1,763,061 ) Free cash flow $ (11,359 ) $ (4,513,952 ) $ 4,502,593 44 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 OSS Concept Development Inc. Bressner Technology GmbH SkyScale Total OSS Concept Development Inc. Bressner Technology GmbH SkyScale Total Revenue $ 37,518,074 $ 2,537,334 $ 18,252,611 $ - $ 58,308,019 $ 32,357,591 $ 755,259 $ 3,756,018 $ 158,514 $ 37,027,382 Cost of sales (22,799,121 ) (1,963,691 ) (14,142,944 ) (38,905,756 ) (21,473,133 ) (748,230 ) (2,796,237 ) (675,059 ) (25,692,659 ) Gross Profit $ 14,718,953 $ 573,643 $ 4,109,667 $ - $ 19,402,263 $ 10,884,458 $ 7,029 $ 959,781 $ (516,545 ) $ 11,334,723 Gross Margin 39.23% 22.61% 22.52% 33.28% 33.64% 0.93% 25.55% -325.87% 30.61% Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2019, total revenue increased $21,280,637 or 57.5%, as compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by revenue from acquisitions which provided $16,278,668 of which Bressner contributed $14,496,593 or 39.2 percentage points and CDI contributed $1,782,075 or 4.8 percentage points of the total increase in revenue. OSS saw an increase in revenue of $5,160,483 or 13.9 percentage points as compared to same period in the prior year. The majority of this increase is attributable to shipments associated with our flash arrays on our airborne military flash contract as well as improvements in our sales of media and entertainment products. There was also a small decrease of $(158,514) or a decrease of (0.4) percentage points attributable to SkyScale which has been dissolved. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue increased by $13,213,097 or 51.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily driven by cost of revenue from acquisitions which contributed $12,562,168 of which Bressner contributed $11,346,707 or 44.2 percentage points and CDI contributed $1,215,461or 4.7 percentage points of the total increase in cost of revenue. OSS saw an increase in cost of revenue of $1,325,988 or 5.2 percentage points as compared to same period in the prior year. This change is attributable to a reduction of $957,693 in applied labor and overhead into inventory from the previous year, offset by costs of goods associated with increased sales of our flash array systems and media and entertainment products in the current year. There was also a decrease of $(675,059) or a decrease of (2.6) percentage points attributable to SkyScale which has been dissolved. The overall gross margin percentage increase from 30.6% for the year ended December 31, 2018 to 33.3% for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 2.7 percentage points. OSS gross margin percentage for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 39.2%, which was 5.6 percentage points more in comparison to the prior year period of 33.6%. The 5.6 percentage point increase is attributable to change in mix attributable to higher sales of our flash array systems. CDI contributed gross margin at a rate of 22.6% due to cost engineering projects on fixed price contracts, while Bressner contributed gross margin at a rate of 22.5%. Operating expenses General and administrative expense General and administrative expense increased $1,988,274 or 30.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to same period in 2018. OSS experienced a reduction of $(379,882) or (19.0%) of the total annual increase in these expenses. The decrease in general and administrative expense for OSS was primarily attributable to not incurring acquisition costs in the current year which was a saving of approximately $628,000 as compared to the prior year, costs associated with the winding down of SkyScale in the prior year which resulted in a savings of approximately $778,000 and a reduction in amortization expense. These savings were offset by some degree by additional compensation costs and third party service costs associated with being a public company which includes legal, accounting costs, insurance, listing fees and reporting and compliance costs and employee costs. CDI contributed $871,422 or 43.8% which is attributable to a full year of operations as compared to only four months of activity in 2018, as a result of being acquired on August 31, 2018. Bressner contributed $1,855,458 or 93.3% of the total annual increase, which is attributable to a full year of operations as compared to only two months of activity in 2018, as a result of being acquired on October 31, 2018. There was also a decrease of $(358,724) or (18.1%) attributable to SkyScale which has been dissolved. Overall general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of revenue to 14.6% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 17.6% during the same period in 2018. 45 Impairment of goodwill During the current year, the Company took a write-down of $1,697,394 attributable to impairment of goodwill of CDI due to a short-fall in the actual overall financial performance of CDI as compared to plan, a recurring need for working capital, and a decrease in the overall Companys stock price. There was no such impairment charge in 2018. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense increased $1,143,234 or 28.6% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. OSS had an increase of $172,128 or 15.1% of the total increase. There was also a reduction in marketing and selling expense of $(132,004) or (11.6%) as a result of the dissolution of SkyScale. CDIs marketing expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased $195,295 or 17.1%, which represented twelve months of activity as compared to the prior year which included only four months of activity. Bressner contributed $907,815 or 79.4% which represented twelve months of activity as compared to the prior year which included only two months of activity. Overall, total marketing and selling expense decreased as a percentage of revenue to 8.8% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 10.8% during the same period in 2018. Research and development expense Research and development expense increased by $841,799 or 21% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to same period in 2018. OSS saw an increase of $291,643 or 34.7%. The increase was largely driven by increased employee compensation costs. CDI contributed $240,154 or 28.5% of the annual increase while Bressner contributed $310,002 or 36.8% of the annual increase for 2019. Overall, total research and development expense decreased as a percentage of revenue to 8.3% during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 10.8% during the same period in 2018. Interest expense Interest expense increased $99,867 or 152% for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. The Company borrowed $1,500,000 from individuals and related parties at an annual interest rate of 9.5%, additionally, warrants of 10% of the value of the borrowing were also granted. The fair value of the warrants is amortized over the life of the loans and such costs are included as interest expense. On October 31, 2018, the Company acquired Bressner which has a line of credit and certain term loans outstanding and as a result, incurred interest charges of $39,292 during the year. The outstanding debt associated with OSS in 2018 was paid down in its entirety with proceeds from its public offering in February 2018. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), for the year ended December 31, 2019 resulted in income of $281,494 as compared to $271,877 in the same period in 2018. The majority of the income for the current year is attributable to interest earned by OSS of $151,113 on deposits, and interest on outstanding customer invoices that were on extended terms. Additionally, the Company recognized a benefit of $208,332 from estimated expenses that had been accrued in the dissolution process of SkyScale which were not realized. This other income was offset during the period by foreign currency transactions losses. Provision for income taxes / Income tax benefits We have recorded an income tax benefit of $54,055, for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to tax benefits of $1,396,784, for the same period in 2018. The provision for the current period is attributable to annual taxable income for 2019 of $1,772,975 with a projected tax rate of 13.4%. The projected effective tax rate for the year differs from the statutory rate mainly due to permanent non-deductible goodwill amortization for Bressner Technology GmbH, income from the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income inclusion, as well as projecting federal, foreign and state tax liabilities for the year. 46 Liquidity and capital resources Given our recent operating losses, the Companys primary sources of liquidity have been provided by (i) the Companys February 2018 initial public offering (net proceeds were approximately $16,100,000), (ii) March 2019 notes payable from members of the Board of Directors and others of $1,500,000, and (iii) the June 2019 sale of 1,554,832 shares of the Companys common stock for net cash proceeds of $2,488,148. As of December 31, 2019, the Companys cash and cash equivalents were approximately $5,200,000 and working capital approximated $14,000,000. Cash and cash equivalents held by Bressner totaled $745,000 (USD) at December 31, 2019, and Bressners debt covenants do not permit the use of those funds by its parent company. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company experienced an operating loss of $779,000, but cash flows provided by operating activities approximated $2,400,000. The Companys revenue growth, inclusive of two acquisitions made in 2018, has resulted in growth of the Company as a whole, but has been offset by increased spending in all areas of operating expenses: general and administrative, marketing and selling, and research and development. Further, in late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was first detected in Wuhan, China. Following the outbreak of this virus, governments throughout the world, including in the United States of America, have quarantined certain affected regions, restricted travel and imposed significant limitations on other economic activities. The Companys operations team is closely monitoring the potential impact to the Companys business, including its cash flows, supply chains, customers and employees. Though management has successfully managed through the current known impacts, if the situation further deteriorates or the outbreak results in further restriction on both supply and demand factors, our cash flows, financial position and operating results for fiscal year 2020 and beyond will be negatively impacted. Neither the length of time nor the magnitude of the negative impacts can be presently determined. Managements plans with respect to the above is to continue its efforts to restructure the Company with the primary objectives of reducing costs, conserving cash, strengthening margins, and improving company-wide execution. Specific actions already implemented by management include the deferral of certain executive and Board compensation payments, a freeze on hiring and minimizing overtime, travel and entertainment, and contractor costs. In addition, management continues to review its expenses on a line item-by-line item basis for cost reduction opportunities, as well as opportunities to increase efficiencies through automation. While management expects these actions to result in prospective cost reductions, management is also committed to securing debt and/or equity financing to ensure that liquidity will be sufficient to meet the Companys cash requirements through at least a period of the next twelve months. Management believes potential sources of liquidity include at least the following: In March 2019, the Company received funding commitments in the amount of $4,000,000 from members of the Board of Directors, of which $1,500,000 has been drawn through December 31, 2019. As of March 26, 2020, management expects that $750,000 of such commitments are currently available to the Company. In March 2020, the Company signed a term sheet with Ayrton Capital LLC for a $5.0 million non-interest bearing convertible note with a 10% original issue discount. The first tranche of $3.0 million is available upon closing with $2.0 million available seven months from the date of closing at the option of the Company. The note is repayable in twenty-two installments beginning three months after closing. While this transaction has not been completed as of March 26, 2020, management expects that the transaction will close prior to April 15, 2020. In May 2019, the Company filed a Form S-3 prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Commission which became effective on June 19, 2019, and allows the Company to offer up to $100,000,000 aggregate dollar amount of shares of its common stock or other financial instruments. As a result of managements cost reduction plans, the Companys potential sources of liquidity and managements most recent cash flow forecasts, management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there can be no assurance that managements cost reduction efforts will be effective, the forecasted cash flows will be achieved, or that external sources of financing, 47 including the issuance of debt and/or eq uity securities, will be available at times and on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flows: 2019 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,374,868 $ (3,890,786 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,385,177 ) $ (5,909,192 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,922,101 $ 11,900,178 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2019, we generated $2,374,868 in cash from operating activities, an increase in cash of $6,265,654 when compared to the cash used in operating activities of $3,890,786 during the same period in 2018. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily a result of a reduction in working capital requirements of $2,392,755, a reduction in net loss of $235,941, and an increase in non-cash adjustments of $3,636,958. Non-cash adjustments include increases of $4,049,059 comprised of the loss attributable to noncontrolling interest, deferred benefit for income taxes, loss on foreign currency transactions, provision for bad debt, impairment of goodwill, amortization of deferred gain, depreciation and amortization, inventory reserves, stock-based compensation expense an unrealized loss on forward currency contracts. These increases were offset by $(412,101) in decreases in non-cash adjustments attributable to, gain on disposal of property and equipment, provision, warranty reserves, and amortization of debt discount. Working capital requirements decreased overall by $2,392,755. The sources of working capital of $3,770,079 were attributable to reductions in accounts receivable and prepaids and other assets, and increases in accounts payable for the comparable period. These sources were offset by uses of working capital due to increased inventory levels and reduced accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1,377,324. Our ability to generate cash from operations in future periods will depend in large part on our profitability, the rate and timing of collections of our accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital including accounts payable. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we used cash of $2,385,177 in investing activities as compared to $5,909,192 used during the same period in 2018, a decrease of $1,850,567. The expenditures in the current year are primarily due to tenant improvements to our headquarter facility and software costs and external consulting costs associated with the implementation of our ERP system for which phase one of the project was substantially completed in 2019. We currently do not anticipate any other significant purchases of equipment nor expansion of our ERP system beyond completion of phase II of the project, which is the integration of certain sales functions. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we generated $2,922,101 from financing activities as compared to the cash generated of $11,900,178 during the same period in 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we raised $1,500,000 from individuals and related parties through the issuance of notes payable that bear interest at an annual rate of 9.5% and are repaid through 24 months monthly installments. Additionally, during the third quarter of the year, the Company sold 1,554,832 shares of common stock for total gross proceeds of $2,700,714, which after commissions to brokers and other expenses resulted in net proceeds to us of $2,488,148. The Company also received proceeds of $47,334 from the exercise of warrants and stock options. Bressner increased borrowing under its lines of credit for the purchase of inventories and also borrowed funds through term loans at interest rates of 2.125% - 2.250% that are repaid through monthly installments of up to 24 months. 48 During year ended December 31, 2018, the Company received proceeds from the sale of common stock in our initial public offering of $19,500,000 which was offset by our stock issuance costs for commissions and third party professional services. We also received $113,168 from the exercise of warrants and stock options. With the proceed s from our initial public offering, we paid off our line of credit and retired all outstanding debt obligations. Contractual obligations and commitments The following table sets forth our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. Contractual Obligations: Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 Years Notes payable $ 2,327,288 $ 1,969,271 $ 358,017 $ - $ - Operating leases 2,414,835 713,471 1,489,630 211,734 - Total $ 4,742,123 $ 2,682,742 $ 1,847,647 $ 211,734 $ - We have made certain indemnities, under which the Company may be required to make payments to an indemnified party, in relation to certain transactions. We indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware. In connection with our facilities leases, we indemnify our lessors for certain claims arising from the use of our facilities. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. These indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments we could be obligated to make. Historically, we have not been obligated to make any payments for these obligations and no liabilities have been recorded for these indemnities. Off balance sheet arrangements Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Stockholder transactions Effective August 1, 2016, we entered into a management services agreement with a company owned by the former Chief Executive Officer of Magma. The agreement called for payments of $180,000 per year for the first two years paid in monthly installments. In year three, the amount was reduced to $37,500 for the year paid in monthly installments. Additionally, we granted 30,000 options in conjunction with execution of this agreement. Payments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $21,875 and $120,635, respectively. Such management services agreement has been now fully completed. In April 2019, certain members of the Companys Board of Directors executed definitive agreements to commit funds of up to $4,000,000 as a credit facility. The Company initially borrowed $1,150,000 from members of the Board of Directors and $350,000 from other shareholders for a two year period at an interest rate of 9.5% which requires the Company to make monthly principal and interest payment of $69,000 per month. In connection with these loans, the Company issued the note holders warrants to purchase shares of the Companys common stock equal to 10% of the original principal as a price per share equal to $2.15 per share. Accordingly, the Company issued to the note holders warrants to purchase 69,766 shares of the Companys common stock. The relative fair value of the warrants issued was $60,158. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we 49 believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. The critical accounti ng estimates, assumptions and judgments that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are described below. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the new accounting standard update ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP, to all contracts using the modified retrospective method. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at a point in time when products ship and control is transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. The Companys contracts are executed through a combination of written agreements along with purchase orders with all customers including certain general terms and conditions. Generally, purchase orders entail products, quantities and prices, which define the performance obligations of each party and are approved and accepted by the Company. The Companys contracts with customers do not include extended payment terms. Payment terms vary by contract type and type of customer and generally range from 30 to 60 days from invoice. Additionally, taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer and deposited with the relevant government authority, are excluded from revenue. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer adjusted for estimated variable consideration, if any. Variable consideration may include discounts, rights of return, refunds, and other similar obligations. The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct product and service based on its relative standalone selling price. The standalone selling price for products primarily involves the cost to produce the deliverable plus the anticipated margin and for services is estimated based on the Companys approved list price. In the normal course of business, the Company does not accept product returns unless the items are defective as manufactured. The Company establishes provisions for estimated returns and warranties. In addition, the Company does not typically provide customers with the right to a refund and does not transact for noncash consideration. Customer agreements include one vendor managed inventory program. The Company recognizes revenue under this arrangement when all of the following criteria are met: (i) the goods have been identified separately as belonging to the customer; (ii) the goods are ready for physical shipment to the customer; (iii) the Company does not have the ability to direct the goods to another customer; and (iv) the arrangement was requested by the customer and that the customer has sufficiently explained a substantial business purpose for the arrangement. Management also considers whether the customer's custodial risks are insured and whether modifications to the Company's normal billing and credit terms were required. 50 Revenues on certain fixe d-price contracts where we provide engineering services, prototypes and completed products are recognized based upon percentage of completion or based upon milestones delivered that are provided during the period and compared to milestone goals to be provi ded over the entire contract. These services require that we perform significant, extensive and complex design, development, modification or implementation of our customers systems. Performance will often extend over long periods of time, and our right to receive future payment depends on our future performance in accordance with the agreement. The percentage-of-completion methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed, on a current cumulative cost to estimated total cost basis, using a reasonably consistent profit margin over the performance period. Due to the long-term nature of these projects, developing the estimates of costs often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues and costs, and such revisions are reflected in earnings in the period in which the revision becomes known. On certain contracts with several of the Companys significant customers, the Company receives payments in advance of manufacturing. Advanced payments are recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue recognition criteria described above has been met. Related billings that are in excess of revenue earned are deferred and recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet until the related services are provided. Deferred revenue was $24,718 and $133,995 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company recognizes revenues for non-refundable, upfront implementation fees on a straight-line basis over the period beginning with initiation of ongoing services through the end of the contract term. Stock-Based Compensation We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted to our employees and other service providers, including stock options granted under the 2017 Plan and 2015 Stock Option Plan that was approved in December 2015 (the 2015 Plan), based on the estimated fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option awards granted under the 2017 Plan and 2015 Plan. We recognize the fair value of stock options granted under the 2017 Plan and 2015 Plan as stock-based compensation on a straight line basis over the requisite service period. We record expense net of anticipated forfeitures and adjust the annual expense based upon actual experience. Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (RSUs) is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. Our use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, expected term of the option, expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. The assumptions used in our option pricing model represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair Value of Common Stock. Since the completion of our IPO, we use the closing quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. Expected Term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumptions were determined based on the vesting terms and contractual lives of the options, using the simplified method. 51 Expected Volatility. Since we do not have sufficient trading history of our common stock, the expected volatility was determined based on the historical stock volatilities of comparable companies. Comparable companies consist of public companies in our industry that is similar in size, stage of life cycle and financial leverage. We intend to continue to apply this process using the same or similar public companies until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own share price becomes available, or un less circumstances change such that the identified companies are no longer similar to us, in which case, more suitable companies whose share prices are publicly available would be used in the calculation. Risk-Free Interest Rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. Dividend Rate. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends and do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and, therefore, use an expected dividend yield of zero. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimation process, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. Inventory Valuation We value our inventory at the lower of cost or its estimated net realizable value. We use the average cost method for purposes of determining cost, which approximates the first-in, first-out method. We write down inventory for excess and obsolescence based upon a review of historical usage and assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses. Actual demand, product mix and alternative usage may be lower than those that we project and this difference could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin if inventory write-downs beyond those initially recorded become necessary. Alternatively, if actual demand, product mix and alternative usage are more favorable than those we estimated at the time of such a write-down, our gross margin could be favorably impacted in future periods. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets We evaluate our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill, intangible and longassets may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in overall economic conditions, a decline in our market capitalization, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. Regardless, goodwill is tested for potential impairment at least annually. Income Taxes The determination of income tax expense requires us to make certain estimates and judgments concerning the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as the deductions and credits that are available to reduce taxable income. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. In evaluating our ability to recover deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset will be used for which a reserve has been provided, we reverse the related valuation allowance. If our actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction differs from estimates, additional allowances or reversals of reserves may be necessary. 52 We use a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. First, the tax position must be evaluated to d etermine the likelihood that it will be sustained upon external examination. If the tax position is deemed more-likely-than-not to be sustained, the tax position is then assessed to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The amount of the benefit that may be recognized is the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any changes to these positions as a result of tax audits, tax laws or other facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to operations. Business Combinations We utilize the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations and allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the various tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. We primarily establish fair value using the income approach based upon a discounted cash flow model. The income approach requires the use of many assumptions and estimates including future revenues and expenses, as well as discount factors and income tax rates. Other estimates include: Estimated step-ups or write-downs for fixed assets and inventory; Estimated fair values of intangible assets; and Estimated income tax assets and liabilities assumed from the target While we use our best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the business acquisition date, our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price allocation period, which is generally no longer than one year from the business acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. For changes in the valuation of intangible assets between preliminary and final purchase price allocation, the related amortization is adjusted in the period it occurs. Subsequent to the purchase price allocation period any adjustment to assets acquired or liabilities assumed is included in operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined. Should we issue shares of our common stock in an acquisition, we will be required to estimate the fair value of the shares issued. Recently implemented accounting pronouncements Per the Companys consolidated financial statements Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, we have implemented a number of changes, as required by FASB. See Note 2 for further details. Recent accounting pronouncements Per the Companys consolidated financial statements Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, we may be implementing a number of changes, as required by FASB. See Note 2 for further details. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily associated with borrowing on revolving lines of credit denominated in both U.S. dollars and Euros. We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities for our variable rate borrowings. 53 Concentration of credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with high credit quality. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $5,185,321 and $2,272,256 respectively, of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or invested with our financial and lending institutions. In Germany, the deposit insurance is 100,000 per bank, per customer. Bressner has funds on deposit in both Euro and U.S. dollar denominations of 508,316 (US$570,686) with banks in excess of the insurance limits. We provide credit to our customers in the normal course of business. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and limit the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary. Foreign currency risk We operate primarily in the United States. Foreign sales of products and services are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We also conduct business outside the United States through our foreign subsidiary in Germany, where business is largely transacted in non-U.S. dollar currencies particularly the Euro, which is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure from changes in the exchange rates of local currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations . OSS GmbH operates as an extension of OSS domestic operations and acquired Bressner Technology GmbH in October 2018. The functional currency of OSS GmbH is the Euro. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are remeasured to the functional currency at the average exchange rate in effect during the period. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the exchange rates of the currencies may impact the translation of the foreign subsidiaries statements of operations into U.S. dollars, which may in turn affect our consolidated statement of operations. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Derivative Financial Instruments We employ derivatives to manage certain currency market risks through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives are designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). We hedge a portion of the exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions. In anticipation of these transactions, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to provide currency at a fixed rate.