Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this Risk Factors Summary section, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information included in this Annual Report. Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. Economic uncertainty and capital markets disruption, which has been significantly impacted by geopolitical instability, could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Volatile or recessionary conditions in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business and/or our access to capital markets in a material manner. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, such as actual events or concerns involving liquidity, defaults, or non-performance by financial institutions or transactional counterparties, could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation. The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell, and new entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. Certain members of our senior management team and board of directors may have limited experience in certain sectors of the AI Transportable market that we are targeting. Changes in U.S. government defense spending could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and overall business. 24 If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed, and our reputation may be damaged. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of any key customers could cause our sales to decrease significantly. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers, as well as our ability to maintain our production schedule. Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. If we cannot retain, attract, and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Any future acquisitions could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves, and adversely affect our financial results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure. If we are unable to protect our proprietary design and intellectual property rights and/or the confidentiality of our trade secrets our competitive position could be harmed, or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Many of our proprietary designs are in digital form and the breach of our computer systems could result in these designs being stolen. Our proprietary designs are susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. Claims by others that we, our channel partners or our end-customers infringe their intellectual property or trade secret rights could harm our business, including due to the fact that we are generally obligated to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards in the United States or internationally related to our suppliers products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The price of our common stock may be volatile, and the price could decline if securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our company or if there are substantial future sales of shares of our common stock, amongst other things. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. 25 Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth and smaller reporting companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Navigating the demand, supply, and operational challenges associated with the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other macroeconomic factors unsuccessfully may affect our financial condition and results of operations . COVID-19 spread worldwide commencing in 2021, resulting in shutdowns and continuing interruptions of manufacturing and commerce, which impacted both our business as well as that of many of our customers. Although many of the impacts of the pandemic that most severely impacted our business have now significantly subsided, the COVID-19 pandemic has increased economic and demand uncertainty. Supply chain disruptions, resulting from factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, labor supply, shipping container shortages and other macroeconomic factors, have impacted, and may continue to impact, us and our customers, vendors, and suppliers. These disruptions have resulted in longer lead times and, increased product costs and shipping expenses. It is not currently possible to predict how long it will take for these supply chain disruptions to cease. The Company has experienced protracted timelines and shortages for delivery of our products as a result of such supply chain disruptions. In addition, while the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and other macroeconomic factors on the global economy and our business in particular is difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic and various other factors have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital or our customers ability to pay us for past or future purchases, which could negatively affect our liquidity. A recession or financial market correction could impact overall technology spending, adversely affecting demand for our products, our business and the value of our common stock. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, global instability and other microeconomic factors on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer spending, including any recession in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, though the full extent and duration is uncertain. Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, war or military conflicts (such as the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine), medical epidemics or pandemics (including, but not limited to, COVID-19) and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Europe and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including California, Germany, and China. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, economic sanctions (such as those recently imposed by the United States and other countries on Russia), trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. In particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our 26 business plans. For example, regulations to implement the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us with critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. In addition, geopolitical and domestic political developments, such as existing and potential trade wars, political or social unrest, military conflicts, elections and post-election developments, and other events beyond our control, can increase levels of political and economic unpredictability globally and increase the volatility of global financial markets. Political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party vendors and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results. We are currently operating in a period of economic uncertainty and capital markets disruption, which has been significantly impacted by geopolitical instability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any negative impact on the global economy and capital markets resulting from the conflict between Russia and Ukraine or any other geopolitical tensions. US and global markets are experiencing volatility and disruption following the escalation of geopolitical tensions and the start of the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine. On February 24, 2022, a full-scale military invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops was reported, which remains ongoing. Since then, international relations between the U.S. and Russia, as well as certain other countries, has been strained and may continue to deteriorate further. Although the length and impact of the ongoing military conflict is highly unpredictable, the conflict in Ukraine could lead to market disruptions, including significant volatility in commodity prices, credit and capital markets, as well as supply chain interruptions. We are continuing to monitor the situation in Ukraine and globally and assessing its potential impact on our business. Additionally, the recent military conflict in Ukraine has led to sanctions and other penalties being levied by the United States, European Union and other countries against Russia. Additional potential sanctions and penalties have also been proposed and/or threatened. Russian military actions and the resulting sanctions could adversely affect the global economy and financial markets and lead to instability and lack of liquidity in capital markets, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain additional funds. Although our business has not been materially impacted by the ongoing military conflict between Russian and Ukraine or other geopolitical instability to date, it is impossible to predict the extent to which our operations, or those of our suppliers and manufacturers, will be impacted in the short and long term, or the ways in which the conflict may impact our business. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions are impossible to predict, but could be substantial. Any such disruptions may also magnify the impact of other risks described in this Annual Report. Volatile or recessionary conditions in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business or our access to capital markets in a material manner. Worsening economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could severely reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, which could affect our ability to secure product to meet our customers demand. Our results of operations and the implementation of our business strategy could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy. An economic downturn may cause uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and could have a material adverse effect on us. We could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates, weak economies, and political conditions in each of the countries in which we sell our products. 27 Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, such as actual events or concerns involving liquidity, defaults, or non-performance by financial institutions or transactional counterparties, could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and results of operations. Actual events involving reduced or limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. For example, in March 2023, Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank were closed and taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") as receiver. Although we did not have any cash or cash equivalent balances on deposit with Silicon Valley Bank or Signature Bank, investor concerns regarding the U.S. or international financial systems could result in less favorable commercial financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter financial and operating covenants, or systemic limitations on access to credit and liquidity sources, thereby making it more difficult for us to acquire financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any decline in available funding or access to our cash and liquidity resources could, among other risks, adversely impact our ability to meet our operating expenses, financial obligations or fulfill our other obligations, or result in breaches of our financial and/or contractual obligations. Any of these impacts, or any other impacts resulting from the factors described above or other related or similar factors not described above, could have material adverse impacts on our liquidity and our current and/or projected business operations and financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the effects of inflation. Inflation has the potential to adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing our overall cost structure, particularly if we are unable to achieve commensurate increases in the prices we charge our customers. The existence of inflation in the economy has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates and capital costs, shipping costs, supply shortages, increased costs of labor, weakening exchange rates and other similar effects. As a result of inflation, we have experienced and may continue to experience, cost increases. Although we may take measures to mitigate the impact of this inflation, if these measures are not effective our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Even if such measures are effective, there could be a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our results of operations and when the cost inflation is incurred. The market for our products is developing and may not develop as we expect. The market for cutting-edge, high-performance computing products is characterized by rapid advances in technologies. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to develop products, new business initiatives and creating innovative and custom designs for our customers. The growth of server clusters, specialized or high-performance applications, and hosted software solutions which require fast and efficient data processing, is crucial to our success. It is difficult to predict the development of the demand for high-performance computing, supercomputers, and related hardware solutions, the size and growth rate for this market, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on several factors, including the demand, cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our products. If our products are not adopted or there is a reduction in demand for our products caused by a lack of customer acceptance, a slowdown in demand for computational power, an overabundance of unused computational power, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early order cancellations, the loss of customers, or decreased sales, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our products are variable and difficult to predict and can result in fluctuations in our net sales from period to period. In addition, our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectation of future sales. Any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of sales is difficult and takes time, thus we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for a shortfall in net sales, and even a small shortfall in net sales could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin and operating results for a given quarter. 28 Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and volatile local, national, and international economic environments, any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Besides the other risks in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operations include, without limitation: Fluctuations in demand for our products and services; The inherent complexity, length, and associated unpredictability of product development windows and product lifecycles; Changes in customers budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; Changing market conditions; Any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; Our ability to continue to broaden our customer base beyond our traditional customers; The timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; and Our ability to develop, introduce, and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers requirements. Each of these factors individually, or the cumulative effect of two or more of these factors, could result in large fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Our products are subject to competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell. Servers, computer accelerators, flash storage arrays, PCIe expansion products, and other products that we design, manufacture, and sell or license are subject to competition. The computer hardware and technology fields are well established with limited, and in many cases no, intellectual property and technological barriers to entry. The markets in which we operate are competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. The markets are influenced by, among others, brand awareness and reputation, price, strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support, product features, reliability and performance, scalability of products, and breadth of product offerings. Due to the nature of our products, competition occurs at the design, performance, and sales stages. A design or sales win by us does not limit further competition and our customers may purchase competitive products from third parties at any time. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. From a cost and control perspective, our products are specialized and thus generally cost more than our competitors products. If our ability to design specialized solutions is deemed to be on par or of lesser value than competing solutions, we could lose our customers and prospects. Many of our customers and competitors, often with substantially more resources or larger economies of scale, produce products that are competitive with our products. Many of these third parties mass-produce hardware solutions and have not heavily invested in or allocated resources to the smaller scale specialized products and solutions we design. A decrease in the cost of general mass-produced hardware solutions, which can serve as a substitute for our products, or the entrance or additional allocation of resources by one of these customers or competitors into the production of specialized systems which compete with our products could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position. The markets for development, distribution, and sale of our high-performance computing solutions are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology, new products and new server configurations may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and earn design wins, which could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 29 Large computer hardware and equipment manufacturers and suppliers have traditionally designed, produced, and sold general purpose servers, and storage arrays and related products and equipment. Our customers supplement these general-purpose systems by purchasing our specialized or customized systems or supplemental products which improve the speed, efficiency, or performance of such systems. If the speed, efficiency, or computational power of such general purpose systems increases such that supplemental or specialized products become unnecessary, or the cost of such general purpose systems declines such that it is more cost effective for prospective customers to add general-purpose equipment rather than specialized or supplemental equipment, we could experience a significant decline in demand for the products which may significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products compete with and supplement general purpose servers, storage systems and related equipment. If the producers of general-purpose equipment implement proprietary standards, software, interfaces, or other interoperability restrictions, including controls which restrict the equipments compatibility with third party systems, we could experience a significant decline in sales because our products would not be interoperable with such systems, resulting in significant harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. In our marketplace, general-purpose equipment is traditionally mass-produced and available to order, while specialized equipment and custom bulk-order equipment is subject to a bid-based purchase system. If one or more large manufacturers of general or standard server storage arrays, or related products and equipment, provide specialized, customized, or supplementary equipment on a made-to-order or generally available basis, we could be forced to reduce our prices or change our selling model to remain competitive which would significantly harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain members of our senior management team and board of directors may have limited experience certain sectors of the AI Transportable market that we are targeting. Certain members of our senior management team and board of directors may have limited experience with respect to sectors of the AI Transportable market that we are targeting, and in particular the military sector, and may have limited experience in other sectors, industries and markets which we may choose to enter in the future. Our management team relies on the knowledge and talent of our employees as well as members of our advisory board to successfully navigate and obtain project wins in our target markets. Further, management works closely with our board of directors in order to make strategic decisions, to assess risk and to better ensure that the Companys actions are aligned with the best interests of our shareholders. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we have recently undergone certain organizational changes to better align our structure and human capital resources with our goals, and have engaged a search firm to help us identify successor chief executive officer and vice president of sales candidates with more significant experience and high-level contacts in the defense sector. We may not be able to identify, retain, hire or train personnel with relevant experience as quickly or efficiently as we need or on terms that are acceptable to us, which could negatively impact our ability to scale our opportunities and growth at the rate that we hope to. An inability to efficiently operate our businesses and execute on our business strategy would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and prospects. Changes in U.S. government defense spending could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and overall business. As we turn our focus to military AI Transportable applications for our products, we expect that sales to prime contractors and U.S. governmental entities will constitute an increasingly significant portion of our sales. We expect that our U.S. government revenues will largely result from contracts awarded under various U.S. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the DOD, and other departments and agencies. Changes in U.S. government defense spending for various reasons, including as a result of potential changes in policy, administration, or budgetary positions, priorities, and protracted lead times could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The sale of our products to such defense customers are subject to U.S. government policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes, which are driven by numerous factors that are out of our control, including U.S. domestic and broader geopolitical events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the U.S. government to enact relevant legislation. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation, and the U.S. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shutdowns and continuing resolutions (CRs) providing only enough funds for U.S. government agencies to continue operating at prior-year levels. Further, if the U.S. government debt ceiling is not raised and the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, the U.S. government could default on its debts. As a result, U.S. government defense spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes and are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. Significant 30 changes in U.S. government defense spending or changes in U.S. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our current business strategy and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed, and our reputation may be damaged. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. The growth and expansion of our business and product offerings places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Any such future growth would also add complexity to and require effective coordination throughout our organization. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which could damage our reputation and brand, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our sales. If we were to lose any of these customers, our sales could decrease significantly. In the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, approximately 37.4% and 41.5%, respectively, of net sales were attributable to three customers, including disguise, Raytheon and the Navy. In addition, a few products comprise a significant amount of our sales, and the discontinuation, modification, or obsolescence of such products could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we expect that disguise will transition to a lower cost, commodity type equipment solution and anticipate that we will begin to experience a decrease in the demand from disguise for our media and entertainment focused equipment and expertise in this area in the first half of 2023. Any loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, our significant customers, including disguise, or a decrease in the high-performance applications that drive the use of our products, or the modification, discontinuation, or obsolescence of a device which constitutes a significant portion of our sales could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products which we have designed and manufactured for them. Some of our contracts allow our customers to have access to the design drawings for products that we have designed and manufactured for them. In some cases, these drawings are included as a deliverable in conjunction with their non-recurring engineering fee, and in other cases, an additional fee is required to obtain the drawings package. Since these customers have access to the drawings, there is no guarantee that they will continue to purchase the manufactured products from us. This arrangement applies particularly to disguise. To our knowledge, our current customers have not had any of the OSS-designed products manufactured by anyone other than OSS, but they may have the capability to do so in the future. We rely on a limited number of parts suppliers to support our manufacturing and design processes. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with the necessary devices, parts, and systems to allow us to build, design and manufacture our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with these parties successfully, or disruptions to our suppliers businesses caused by supply chain constraints, inflation, human capital issues, and/or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. In the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, suppliers for which purchases represent greater than 10% of our total parts purchases accounted for approximately 25.0% and 12.6% of materials purchased, respectively. This concentration is with one supplier, Concisys Inc. Although we do believe we could locate additional suppliers to fulfill our needs in the event that our relationship with Concisys Inc. or any of our other suppliers terminated or they are unable to fulfill our manufacturing needs, any significant change in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition unless and until we are able to find suitable replacements. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract suppliers on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers are not required to supply our raw materials for any specific period or in any specific quantity or price. 31 Global pandemics or other disasters or public health concerns in regions of the world where we have operations or source material or sell products, such as outbreaks of COVID-19 or H1N1 flu, could result in the disruption of our business. These or any governmental developments or health concerns in countries in which we operate could result in social, economic, or labor instability. Any disruption resulting from these or similar events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to resume normalized operations, and this could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business, operations, or the global economy resulting from COVID-19, economic instability and/or other macroeconomic factors. Currently, we are experiencing unavailability of certain products and limited supplies, protracted delivery dates for componentry, increasing product costs, and changes in minimum order quantities to secure product. As a result, we are carrying increased inventory balances to ensure availability of necessary products and to secure pricing. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers. Our sales depend on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to design new products, anticipate technological improvements and enhancements, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing computer hardware and software industry, and in the AI Transportable space in particular. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to develop products that offer performance features desired by our customers and performance and functionality superior or more cost effective than solutions offered by our competitors. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements, or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected, and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure that product introductions will meet our anticipated release schedules or that our products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the rapidly changing nature of the computer equipment market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies. Delays in our production cycle could result in outdated equipment or decreased purchases of our products. The design and manufacture of our products can take several months to several years. The length of such process depends on the complexity and purpose of the system or equipment being designed, and may be affected by factors such as the development and design of unique or specialized systems; the fabrication, availability, and supply of parts; the customization of parts, as applicable; the manufacture and/or assembly of the units, quality control testing; and the development and incorporation of new technologies. If our products are outdated upon completion of this process, our sales could materially decline, and it may be necessary to sell products at a loss. Unsuccessful government programs or OEM contracts could lead to reduced revenues. We design and manufacture certain products to fit the specifications of government programs or OEM contracts. These programs may take months or years to complete and involve significant investment of our time, money, and resources. We generally receive upfront fees for these programs, but there is often little or no obligation on the part of our customer to purchase large volumes of products at the time of final product launch. Unsuccessful product launches could lead to reduced revenues and/or potential returns of products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be forced to sell products at a loss or spend a significant amount of resources to find additional customers for these products if these programs do not fit the future needs of our intended customers. Our inventory may rapidly become obsolete. Sales cycles for some of our products can take several months or longer. In addition, it can take time from the bid to the development and manufacture of the equipment. We maintain inventory based in large part on our forecasts of the volume and timing of orders. The varying length of the sales cycles makes accurate forecasting difficult. The delays inherent in our sales cycles raise the risk that the inventory we have on hand will become obsolete or impaired prior to its use or sale. If our forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders, we may be required to write off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory, based on a reduced sales price. A write off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 32 If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. Our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers perceptions of our brand. Also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, including a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. We offer an extended product warranty to cover defective products at no cost to the customer. An unexpected change in failure rates of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. We offer product warranties that generally extend for one or two years from date of sale that require us to repair or replace defective products returned by the customer during the warranty period at no cost to the customer. Our product warranties are in addition to warranties we receive from our vendors. Existing and future product guarantees and warranties place us at the risk of incurring future returns and repair and/or replacement costs. While we engage in product quality programs and processes, including monitoring and evaluating the quality of our components sourced from our suppliers, our warranty obligation is affected by actual product defect rates, parts and equipment costs and service labor costs incurred in correcting a product defect. We record an estimate for anticipated warranty-related costs based on historical and estimated future product return rates and expected repair or replacement costs. Although such costs have historically been within managements expectations and our warranty reserves (when coupled with warranty coverage provided by our vendors) have been sufficient to cover such costs, our reserves set aside to cover warranty returns may be inadequate due to an unanticipated number of customer returns, undetected product defects, unanticipated component failures or changes in estimates for material, labor and other costs we may incur to replace projected product defects. As a result, if actual customer returns, product defect rates, parts and equipment costs or service labor costs exceed our estimates, or we experience unexpected changes in failure rates, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. Achieving design wins is an important success factor for our business. We work closely with OEMs and end users to ensure the customer gets the product they want in the specific configuration, size and weight required for the application. We have participated in many design wins based upon our ability to interpret technical specifications and proceed rapidly through prototyping, development, and delivery. This approach and expertise are two of the factors driving our growth. Failure to maintain our expertise and ability to deliver custom, specific design systems could harm our business. In order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that OEMs, customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. 33 Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. If we cannot retain, attract, and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales, and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key technical management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, in connection with our announcement that David Raun, our current chief executive officer, will be stepping down, we have engaged a search firm to assist in the identification of candidates to fill the role of chief executive officer of the Company. We have not yet identified a candidate to fill this role. There will be a transition period once a successor chief executive officer is identified and hired, and there can be no guarantees the candidate who is selected to fill the role will be able to successfully execute on our business strategies. We have entered into employment agreements with most of our executive officers, though they may terminate employment with us at any time, for any reason and with no advance notice. We may lose key personnel to other high technology companies or to other larger companies with significantly greater resources than us who may recruit our key personnel. The replacement of members of our senior management team or other key personnel may involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through grants of stock options, restricted stock awards or restricted stock units. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive enough. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to, and have had to, increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, without limitation, the following: difficulties in successfully integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, offerings and personnel of the acquired company or companies; insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles; difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Acquisitions may also cause us to: use a substantial portion of our cash reserves or incur debt; issue equity securities or grant equity incentives to acquired employees that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership; assume liabilities, including potentially unknown liabilities; 34 record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; or become subject to intellectual property litigation or other litigation. Acquisitions of high-technology companies and assets are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our completed or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in increased pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, such as processors, interconnects, flash storage and other infrastructure, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, as well as the potential for integration of differentiated technology into already-commoditized components, has resulted in, and may result in increased pricing pressure that may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive, which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary design and intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. For example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our trade secrets and/or proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and managements attention, and there can be no assurance we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our trade secrets and/or intellectual property. Many of our proprietary designs are in digital form and the breach of our computer systems could result in these designs being stolen. If our cybersecurity measures are breached or unauthorized access to private or proprietary data is otherwise obtained, our proprietary designs could be stolen. Because we hold many of these designs in digital form on our servers, there exists an inherent risk that an unauthorized third party could conduct a cybersecurity breach resulting in the theft of our proprietary information. While we have taken cybersecurity steps to protect our proprietary information, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our competitive edge and our ability to obtain new customers thereby adversely affecting our financial results. 35 Our proprietary designs are susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. Much of the value of our proprietary rights is derived from our vast library of design specifications. While we consider our design specifications to be protected by various proprietary, trade secret and intellectual property laws, such information is susceptible to reverse engineering by our competitors. We may not be able to prevent our competitors from developing competing design specifications and the cost of enforcing these rights may be significant. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary designs our financial condition and operating results could suffer. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. We consider trade secrets, including confidential and unpatented know-how and designs important to the maintenance of our competitive position. We protect trade secrets and confidential and unpatented know-how, in part, by customarily entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to such knowledge, such as our employees, outside technical and commercial collaborators, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to maintain confidentiality and assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property or trade secret rights could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. As the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. Intellectual property or trade secret claims against us, and any resulting lawsuits, may result in us incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert managements time and attention. We are generally obligated to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products, which could force us to incur substantial costs. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these channel partners and end-customers, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund amounts they have paid to us. Our channel partners and other end-customers in the future may seek indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought against them regarding our products. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming expensive to resolve, and could divert managements time and attention from managing our business. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. 36 Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which took effect in May 2018 and requires companies to meet requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection, and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements, to the extent applicable, could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. In addition, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which took effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The CCPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. Some observers have noted that the CCPA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent state privacy, data protection, and data security legislation in the U.S., which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. The CCPA was expanded substantially on January 1, 2023, when the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA) became fully operative. The CPRA, among other things, gives California residents the ability to limit use of certain sensitive personal information, further restricts the use of cross-contextual advertising, establishes restrictions on the retention of personal information, expands the types of data breaches subject to the CCPAs private right of action, provides for increased penalties for CPRA violations concerning California residents under the age of 16, and establishes a new California Privacy Protection Agency to implement and enforce the new law. Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including, without limitation, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having international operations; reliance on channel partners; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; compliance with foreign laws and regulations, which are subject to change; compliance with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations; conflicts between U.S. laws and regulations and foreign laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing rights abroad. In addition, political and economic changes, including international conflicts (such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine) and terrorist acts, throughout the world may interfere with our, our suppliers and/or our customers activities in particular locations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international sales or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition and growth prospects. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Our products are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our products must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we violate these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees, could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our channel partners, agents, or consultants fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Changes in our products or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may also create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, prevent our 37 end-customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such laws and regulations, could also result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards in the United States or internationally related to our suppliers products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Our suppliers products are subject to governmental regulations in many jurisdictions. To achieve and maintain market acceptance, our suppliers products must continue to comply with these regulations and many industry standards. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, our suppliers may have to modify their products. The failure of their products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. Supplier uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for HPC products, including our products. Moreover, channel partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Practices in the local business communities of many countries outside the United States have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock will depend on several factors, including those described in this Risk Factors section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our securities if you are unable to sell them at or above the price you paid. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, amongst other things: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or particularly, those companies in our industry; sales of shares of our common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders; failure of financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow the Company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; 38 announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors businesses, or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any major change in our management; general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the relevant companies. Broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or interest rate changes, may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market prices of particular companies securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation of this type, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders have substantial control over the Company and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 33.4% of our outstanding common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of February 28, 2023. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to exert significant control over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to exert significant control the management and affairs of the Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company; impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving the Company; or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our securities or do not publish research or reports about our Company, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We have no control over such analysts or the content and opinions in their reports. 39 Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our Company and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more equity research analysts cease coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Substantial future equity issuances and/or sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of shares of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial equity issuances and/or sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. As of February 28, 2023, we have 20,343,071 shares of our common stock outstanding. We may issue or sell a significant number of shares of our common stock or other securities to raise capital in the future or in connection with a strategic transaction, which would result in significant dilution to our current shareholders. Additionally, historically, a significant portion of the compensation that we pay to our executive officers, employees and directors has been in the form of equity awards. We believe that this structure incentivizes such individuals to both join and remain with the Company, and also serves to further the growth, development and financial success of the Company by providing a means by which such persons can personally benefit through the ownership of capital stock of the Company. However, the issuance of securities to our executive officers, employees and directors also results in dilution to our current shareholders, and substantial sales of such securities could cause the market price of our securities to decline and/or could depress the growth of the market price of our securities. We have the right to designate and issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to designate and/or issue additional preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences, and privileges for the preferred stock. Currently, we do not have any series of preferred stock designated or shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences, and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and up to 50,000,000 shares of authorized common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be affected at a duly called annual or special meeting, and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the president; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; 40 provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; and provide that vacancies on our board of directors may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation specifies that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations. If our available cash balances and anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, due to lower demand for our products as a result of other risks described in this Risk Factors section, we may seek to raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations or licensing arrangements. We may also consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, pursue strategic investments, take advantage of financing opportunities, or other reasons. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay or reduce the scope of our development programs. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these actions could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid, and do not expect to pay, cash dividends to holders of our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Anyone considering investing in shares of our common stock should not rely on such investment to provide dividend income. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to establish, maintain and expand our operations and product offerings. In addition, any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their shares of common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. 41 We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company, and the reduced public company reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently qualify as an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things: being permitted to have only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations disclosure; an exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation, amongst other things, in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering (December 31, 2023), or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more; (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1.07 billion in non-convertible debt; or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large-accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates, and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter. In addition, we are currently a smaller reporting company, as defined in the Exchange Act, and have elected to take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a smaller reporting company as such term is defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, certain of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company may continue to be available to us as a smaller reporting company, including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements, amongst other things. We will continue to be a smaller reporting company until we have more than $250 million in public float (based on our common stock) measured as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or, in the event we have no public float (based on our common stock), annual revenues of more than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. As a result of the foregoing, the information we provide may be different than the information that is available with respect to other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRES OLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 2. PRO PERTIES. Our corporate headquarters are in a leased space comprising of approximately 29,342 square feet in Escondido, California under a lease that expires in August 2024. We also lease a 3,208 square foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah that expires in June 2023, that houses our Ion software development team. Additionally, we lease a 1,632 square foot facility located in Anaheim, California, with the lease expiring in June 2023. OSS Europe leases space comprising of 8,073 square feet on a month-to-month lease. 42 We believe our existing facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. ITEM 3. LEG AL PROCEEDINGS. We are subject to litigation, claims, investigations, and audits arising from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. See footnote No. 12 Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not Applicable 43 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES . Market Information Our common stock, par value $0.0001, per share is publicly traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol OSS. Below is our quarterly information with respect to the high and low sale prices for our common stock for such time periods. High Low First Quarter (through March 20, 2023) $ 3.71 $ 2.46 * * On March 20, 2023, the closing price was $2.47 per share. 2022 2021 Year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: High Low High Low First Quarter $ 5.19 $ 3.75 $ 9.50 $ 3.61 Second Quarter $ 4.95 $ 3.80 $ 6.94 $ 4.27 Third Quarter $ 4.19 $ 3.13 $ 6.66 $ 4.78 Fourth Quarter $ 3.40 $ 2.69 $ 5.66 $ 4.40 Holders As of February 28, 2023, there were 20,343,071, shares of our common stock outstanding held by approximately 60 holders of record of our common stock. This number was derived from our stockholder records and does not include beneficial holders of our common stock whose shares are held in street name with various dealers, clearing agencies, banks, brokers, and other fiduciaries. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Equity Compensation Plan Information See Part III, Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2022, there were no unregistered sales of our securities that were not reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 6. [R ESERVED]. 44 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS . You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and operating results together with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion and analysis contain forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or in other parts of this Annual Report. Overview One Stop Systems, Inc. (OSS) designs, manufactures, and markets specialized high-performance compute and storage hardware, software, and systems, which are designed to target edge AI Transportable deployments. These specialized modules and systems consist of computers and storage products that incorporate the latest state-of-the art components with our embedded proprietary software. Such modules and systems allow our customers to offer high-end computing capabilities (often integrated within their equipment) to their target markets and applications. Edge computing is a form of computing that is done on site, near a particular data source or the user (rather than in the cloud), minimizing the need for data to be processed in a remote data center. The global increase in load on the cloud infrastructure and increase in AI applications, are the primary factors driving the growth of the edge computing market. We market our products to manufacturers of automated equipment used for medical, industrial, and military applications. Our customer applications often require connection to a wide array of data sources and sensors, ultra-fast processing power, and the ability to quickly access and store large and ever-growing data sets at their physical location (rather than in the cloud). This equipment requires datacenter class performance optimized for deployment at the edge in challenging environments. Many of these edge applications have unique requirements, including special and compact form factors ruggedized for harsh conditions, which cannot be accommodated by traditional controlled air-conditioned data centers. We believe that we are uniquely positioned as a specialized provider to address the needs of this market, providing custom servers, data acquisition platforms, compute accelerators, solid-state storage arrays, system I/O expansion systems, as well as edge optimized industrial and panel PCs, tablets, and handheld compute devices. Our systems also offer industry leading capabilities that occupy less physical space and require less power consumption. We deliver this high-end technology to our customers through the sale of equipment and embedded software. One Stop Systems, Inc. was originally incorporated as a California corporation in 1999, after initially being formed as a California limited liability company in 1998. On December 14, 2017, the Company was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in connection with its initial public offering. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company formed a wholly owned subsidiary in Germany, OSS GmbH. Then, in July 2016, the Company acquired Magma and its operations. On August 31, 2018, the Company acquired CDI, which was located in Irvine, California. CDI specialized in the design and manufacture of custom high-performance computing systems for airborne in-flight entertainment, flight safety equipment, and networking systems. CDIs business was fully integrated into the core operations of OSS as of June 1, 2020. On October 31, 2018, OSS GmbH acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Bressner Technology GmbH, a Germany limited liability company located near Munich, Germany ("OSS Europe"). OSS Europe designs and manufactures standard and customized servers, panel PCs, and PCIe expansion systems. OSS Europe also provides manufacturing, test, sales, and marketing services for customers throughout the EMEA. Recent Developments In the second quarter of 2022, we formed a new strategic advisory board to aid in the acceleration of our pursuit of the AI Transportables market, and the military sector in particular. The advisory board is comprised of retired high-ranking military officials and corporate executives with decades of experience in technology, high performance computing and M&A for the defense, oil & gas, AI and autonomous vehicle industry verticals. Members of the advisory board provide input on product and market strategy, as well as help us navigate government bureaucracy and identify/introduce us to key decision makers, all with the goal of accelerating our success through their contacts, knowledge and experience. Please see the section of this Annual Report entitled Advisory Board Members, below, for information regarding each of the members of our advisory board. 45 Furthermore, in the first quarter of 2023, we implemented certain internal organizational changes to align our US-based operations with, and to further support and accelerate, our strategy to focus on the AI Transportables industry, and our military business in particular. In furtherance of this strategy and our goals, we have taken various steps to strengthen our management team with individuals who have deep experience and high-level contacts in the defense sector. In connection with this transition, on February 9, 2023, we announced that David Raun, the Companys chief executive officer, will be stepping down, effective upon the appointment of his successor. Mr. Raun will continue to serve as a member of the Companys board of directors. Additionally, in connection with this transition, we also (i) appointed James Ison, our chief marketing and sales officer, as our chief product officer, (ii) initiated a search for a vice president of sales, (iii) implemented a reduction in force, consisting of 12 employees, in those areas of our business that we are transitioning our focus away from; and (iv) made certain other internal structural changes. We have not yet identified a candidate to fill the roles of chief executive officer or a vice president of sales; however, we have retained an internationally recognized search firm to aid in this effort. Additionally, in February 2023, our board of directors constituted a new committee of the board, the Strategic Transition Committee, to assist in the identification, transition and retention of a successor chief executive officer, including to work with the engaged search firm to accomplish the foregoing, to provide support to our management team throughout the transition, and to perform other duties as may be necessary or desirable from time to time in connection with the reorganization of the Company. Members of the Strategic Transition Committee consist of Jack Harrison (chair of the committee), Gioia Messinger and Kenneth Potashner. As compensation for the services that they are expected to perform as members of the Strategic Transition Committee (i) Mr. Harrison and Ms. Messinger shall be entitled to receive $2,000 per month in cash, commencing January 1, 2023 and continuing for so long as the Strategic Transition Committee remains in effect, which cash payments shall be paid to each of the relevant members in one lump sum at or about such time that the Strategic Transition Committee is disbanded, and (ii) Mr. Potashner shall be entitled to receive (A) 3,333 shares of Company common stock per month, commencing November 1, 2022 and continuing for so long as the Strategic Transition Committee remains in effect, which shares shall be issued to Mr. Potashner in one grant at or about such time that the Strategic Transition Committee is disbanded, and (B) a one-time cash payment equal to 30% of the total value of the shares issued to Mr. Potashner to cover taxes payable in connection with the issuance of such shares. The negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on the global economy and capital markets resulting from the geopolitical instability caused in part by the ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, including inflation and Federal Reserve interest rate increases, have contributed to global supply chain issues and economic uncertainty, which has negatively affected our operations. Additionally, the general consensus among economists continues to suggest that we should expect a higher recession risk to continue for the foreseeable future, which could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term and could negatively affect our operations. Additionally, in March 2023, Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank were closed and taken over by the FDIC, which created significant market disruption and uncertainty for those who bank with those institutions, and which raised significant concern regarding the stability of the banking system in the United States, and in particular with respect to regional banks. If other banks and financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents may be threatened and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. With respect to our media and entertainment business, we are seeing an acceleration in our customers investment in cloud technology and a drive towards less intelligent compute capability at the edge to reduce the costs of their componentry. This is particularly true of their virtual products, which do not require the same level of ruggedization as this system is not typically operated in harsh environments and for which software is being developed to eventually provide a real-time cloud solution. As a result, we expect that our customer will transition to a lower cost, commodity type equipment solution. We anticipate that we will begin to experience a decrease in the demand for our high-compute, ruggedized media and entertainment focused equipment and our expertise in this area in the first half of 2023. Currently, we are experiencing increased pricing, longer lead-times, unavailability of product and limited supplies, protracted delivery dates, changes in minimum order quantities to secure product, and/or shortages of certain parts and supplies that are necessary components for the products and services we offer to our customers. As a result, the Company is carrying increased inventory balances to ensure availability of necessary products and to secure pricing. These global issues and concerns regarding general economic decline or recession are also impacting some of our customers, who are experiencing downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue, and as a result, these customers may need to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or payment extensions, or seek to renegotiate their contracts. 46 As a result of these global issues, as well as other factors discussed in this Annual Report, it has been difficult to accurately forecast our revenues or financial results, especially given the near and long-term impacts of the pandemic, geopolitical issues, inflation, the Federal Reserve interest rate increases and the potential for a recession. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of these issues on the economy and our business may be difficult to assess or predict, these world events have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, and may reduce our ability to access additional capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. Our results of operations could be materially below our forecasts as well, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, or cause our stock price to decline. Furthermore, a decrease in orders in a given period, including in connection with our media and entertainment customers transition to the cloud, could negatively affect our revenues in future periods. These global issues and events may also have the effect of heightening many risks associated with our customers and supply chain. We may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities from time to time, or which we determine are in our best interests. In addition, we may decide to postpone or abandon planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. Managements plans with respect to the above are to continue their efforts towards responding to the changing economic landscape, to continue to control costs, conserve cash, strengthen margins through the introduction of new product lines focusing on the autonomous truck diving and artificial intelligence compute capabilities for military and industrial applications, and improve company-wide execution. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The Company recognizes revenue under accounting standard ASC 606. Revenue is primarily generated from the sale of computer hardware and engineering services, and, to a minimal extent, revenue is also generated from the sale of software and sales of software maintenance and support contracts. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a specific point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at that point in time when products ship and control is deemed to be transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs of materials, costs paid to third-party contract manufacturers (which may include the costs of components), and personnel costs associated with manufacturing and support operations. Personnel costs consist of wages, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation expenses. Cost of revenue also includes freight, allocated overhead costs and inventory write-offs and changes to our inventory and warranty reserves. Allocated overhead costs consist of certain facilities and utility costs. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars with an improvement in margin, as product revenue increases. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist of general and administrative, sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Salaries and personnel-related costs, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant components of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities and utility costs. General and Administrative - General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources, and fees for third-party professional services, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in growing the business. Marketing and Selling Marketing and Selling expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, sales commissions, marketing programs, travel, and entertainment expenses as well as allocated overhead. 47 Marketing programs consist of advertising, tradeshows, events, corporate communications, and brand-building activities. We expect marketing and selling expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our sales force, increase marketing resources, and further develop sales channels. Research and Development - Research and development expense consists primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, prototype expenses, depreciation associated with assets acquired for research and development, third-party engineering, and contractor support costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in new and existing products. Other Income (Expense), net Other income consists of miscellaneous income and income received for activities outside of our core business. Other expense includes expenses for activities outside of our core business. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of estimated income taxes due to the United States and German governments as well as state tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we conduct business, along with the change in our deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, presented in dollars and as a percentage of revenue. For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Revenue $ 72,421,345 $ 61,982,104 Cost of revenue 52,023,736 42,342,815 Gross profit 20,397,609 19,639,289 Operating expenses: General and administrative 7,279,401 7,658,418 Marketing and selling 6,806,306 6,201,228 Research and development 4,743,574 4,032,616 Total operating expenses 18,829,281 17,892,262 Income from operations 1,568,328 1,747,027 Other income (expense): Interest income 237,751 244,382 Interest expense (162,391 ) (527,139 ) Gain on forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan and interest - 1,514,354 Other income (expense), net 550,854 (40,176 ) Total other income (expense), net 626,214 1,191,421 Income before income taxes 2,194,542 2,938,448 Provision for income taxes 4,423,597 605,675 Net (loss) income $ (2,229,055 ) $ 2,332,773 48 For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 71.8 % 68.3 % Gross profit 28.2 % 31.7 % Operating expenses: General and administrative 10.1 % 12.4 % Marketing and selling 9.4 % 10.0 % Research and development 6.5 % 6.5 % Total operating expenses 26.0 % 28.9 % Income from operations 2.2 % 2.8 % Other income (expense): Interest income 0.3 % 0.4 % Interest expense -0.2 % -0.9 % Gain on forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan and interest 0.0 % 2.4 % Other income (expense), net 0.8 % -0.1 % Total other income (expense), net 0.9 % 1.9 % Income before income taxes 3.0 % 4.7 % Provision for income taxes 6.1 % 1.0 % Net (loss) income -3.1 % 3.8 % Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: For The Year Ended December 31, 2022 For The Year Ended December 31, 2021 Entity: Revenue Cost of Revenue Gross Profit Gross Margin % Revenue Cost of Revenue Gross Profit Gross Margin % OSS $ 43,286,715 $ (29,142,852 ) $ 14,143,863 32.7 % $ 38,492,004 $ (24,272,292 ) $ 14,219,712 36.9 % OSS Europe 29,134,630 (22,880,884 ) 6,253,746 21.5 % 23,490,100 (18,070,523 ) 5,419,577 23.1 % $ 72,421,345 $ (52,023,736 ) $ 20,397,609 28.2 % $ 61,982,104 $ (42,342,815 ) $ 19,639,289 31.7 % Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2022, our total revenue increased $10,439,241, or 16.8%, as compared to the same period in 2021. OSS saw an increase in revenue of $4,794,711, or 12.5%, as compared to the prior year in 2021. The majority of this increase is primarily attributable to an increase in orders and shipments of our AI Transportable products into the autonomous trucking industry and to our media and entertainment customer. OSS Europe experienced an increase of $5,644,530, or 24.0%, as compared to the prior year in 2021. This increase is primarily attributable to general economic improvements in Europe resulting from the diminishing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the business environment and procuring large, one-time orders. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue increased $9,680,921, or 22.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year in 2021. OSS saw an increase in cost of revenue of $4,870,560, or 20.1%, as compared to the prior year period in 2021. This increase in cost of revenue is mainly attributable to an increase in our sales of AI Transportable products into the autonomous trucking industry and to our media and entertainment customer (disguise) and additional allowance for inventory obsolescence related primarily to disguise. OSS Europes cost of revenue increased $4,810,361, or 26.6%, as compared to the prior year in 2021, due to a general economic improvement in Europe resulting from the diminishing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the business environment and procuring large, one-time orders. The overall gross margin percentage decreased from 31.7% in the prior year to 28.2% in the current year. OSS gross margin percentage for the year ended December 31, 2022, was 32.7%, a decrease of 4.2 percentage points as compared to the prior year period in 2021 of 36.9%, due to the predominance of lower margin product sales to our media and entertainment customer, an overall increase in material costs for the majority of our products, and additional allowance for inventory 49 obsolescence. OSS Europe contributed gross margin at a rate of 21.5%, as compared to the same prior year period in 2021 of 23.1%, a decrease of 1.6 percentage points, which was attributable to increased costs for materials and transportation costs. Operating expenses General and administrative expense General and administrative expense decreased $379,017, or 4.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same prior year period in 2021. OSS experienced a decrease of $127,251, or 2.3%. OSS Europe had a decrease of $251,766, or 12.3%. The decrease in general and administrative expense is primarily attributable to reductions in amortization and legal expenses. Overall, total general and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of revenue to 10.1% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 12.4% during the same period in 2021. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense increased $605,078, or 9.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same prior year period in 2021. OSS had an increase of $441,302, or 8.9%, which was mainly attributable to a return to a more normalized business environment, which included additional costs for tradeshows, advertising, travel and personnel. OSS Europe had an increase of $163,776, or 13.0%, primarily resulting from the addition of new marketing personnel and sales collateral material. Generally, both OSS and OSS Europe experienced additional marketing expenses, as markets have reopened as a result of the reduction in restrictions that were imposed during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall, total marketing and selling expense decreased as a percentage of revenue to 9.4% during the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 10.0% during the same period in 2021. Research and development expense Research and development expense increased $710,958, or 17.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same prior year period in 2021. OSS saw an increase of $686,757, or 19.0%. The increase was largely driven by engineering resources being deployed for the development of new products for the AI Transportable industry and development of PCIe gen 5.0 technology. OSS Europe experienced a modest increase of $24,202, or 5.9%. This increase was attributable to increased testing of product to support the increase in revenue. Overall, total research and development expense as a percentage of revenue was the same for both years at 6.5%. Interest income Interest income decreased $6,631 for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same prior year period in 2021. The decrease is attributable to reduced investment balances and return on qualified short-term investments that meet company requirements. Interest expense Interest expense decreased $364,748 for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021 as a result of the April 2021 maturity and repayment in full of certain outstanding promissory notes and related party notes payable. The interest and the professional fees incurred on securing debt were amortized on an effective interest rate basis to interest expense. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), for the year ended December 31, 2022, resulted in net other income of $550,854, as compared to net other expense of $40,176 in the same prior year period in 2021, for a net change of $591,030. The most significant contributions to the year-over-year change include the forgiveness of the principal and interest in the amount of $1,514,354 of the Companys Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan in 2021, the sale of a URL for Magma.com in 2022 for $125,000, and $500,320 for reversal of a settlement accrual for previous contract disputes. Provision for income taxes We have recorded an income tax provision of $4,423,597 and $605,675, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 differed from the statutory rate mainly due to permanent non-deductible goodwill amortization for OSS Europe, deductions related to expenses of OSS stock options, research and development credits, forgiveness of the PPP loan, and changes in reserves for uncertain tax positions, as well as projecting federal, foreign and state tax liabilities for the year. Additionally, during 2022 the Company recorded a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets due to an assessment of the potential realization of such asset. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, research and development costs are no longer fully deductible and are required to be 50 capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes effective January 1, 2022. The mandatory capitalization requirement increases our deferred tax assets and may have an impact on payment of tax liabilities. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022, is 201.4%, as compared to 20.6% in the prior year 2021 due to the effect of the valuation for deferred tax assets. Liquidity and capital resources On March 3, 2021, we sold and issued 1,497,006 shares of Company common stock to an accredited investor pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement through a registered direct offering, resulting in net proceeds of $9,188,673 to us. On April 1, 2022, we repaid in full the outstanding balance and accrued interest of those Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Notes that were issued by the Company to an institutional investor through a registered direct offering in April of 2020. Historically, our primary sources of liquidity have been provided by public and private offerings of our securities and revenues generated from our business operations. As of December 31, 2022, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $3,112,196, with short-term investments of $10,123,535, and total working capital of $34,744,880. Cash and cash equivalents held by OSS Europe totaled US$336,359 on December 31, 2022. OSS Europes debt covenants do not permit the use of those funds by its parent company. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we had income from operations of $1,568,328, with cash used in operating activities of $7,812,542. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we had income from operations of $1,747,027, with cash generated by operating activities of $5,622,596. Our sources of liquidity and cash flows are used to fund ongoing operations, fund research and development projects for new products technologies and provide ongoing support services for our customers. Over the next year, we anticipate that we will use our liquidity and cash flows from our operations to fund our growth. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. During the fourth quarter of 2022, the general consensus among economists continued to suggest that we should expect a higher recession risk to continue over the next year, which could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term and could negatively affect our operations. We intend to continue to monitor the effects of inflation, global supply chain shortages and the economic conditions, and, if appropriate, we may alter our plans to address such concerns as they may arise. Managements plans are to continue their efforts towards responding to the changing economic landscape, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, a potential recession, increases in the Federal Reserve interest rate, supply chain constraints and international conflicts, by continuing to control hiring and operating costs, conserve cash, focus on improving margin. While management expects these actions and continued diligence towards cost growth and containment will result in a decreased rate of growth in costs as compared to revenue growth, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 improved partially as a result of such actions, management is also committed to conserving cash and securing debt and/or equity financing, as required, for liquidity to meet our cash requirements through at least a period of the next twelve months. In April 2022, the Company obtained a domestic revolving line of credit of $2,000,000 from its bank, which renews on an annual basis at the current prime rate. To access this line of credit the Company must maintain cash and investments balances at a minimum of $4,000,000. Although the Company has not drawn down on the line of credit to date, it may choose to do so in the future. As a result of managements implementation of our cost reduction plans, our potential sources of liquidity and managements most recent cash flow forecasts, management believes that we have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our anticipated working capital requirements for our ongoing operations and obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, there can be no assurance that managements cost reduction efforts will be effective or the forecasted cash flows 51 will be achieved. Furthermore, we will continue to evaluate our capital expenditure needs based upon various factors, including but not limited to, our sales from operations, growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts, the timing of new product introductions, and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may borrow up to $2,000,000 from our revolving line of credit with our bank (subject to satisfaction of certain borrowing conditions), may have to sell additional equity or debt securities, or may obtain expanded credit facilities to fund our operating expenses, pay our obligations, diversify our geographical reach, and grow the Company. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be negatively affected. However, if cash flows from operations become insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing were obtained, then management would consider restructuring the Company in a way to preserve its business while maintaining expenses within operating cash flows. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flows: 2022 2021 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (7,806,025 ) $ 5,622,596 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 3,908,323 $ (15,110,625 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,946,553 $ 8,430,712 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, we used $7,806,025 in cash for operating activities, a difference of $13,428,621 when compared to the cash provided by operating activities of $5,622,596 during the 2021 year. This significant decrease in operating cash flow is mainly attributable to significant increases in working capital requirements for accounts receivable and inventories. The change in cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the cash provided by operating activities during the 2021 year, is primarily a result of a reduction in profitability from net income in 2021 of $2,332,773, which included the PPP loan and interest forgiveness of $1,514,354, to a net loss of $2,229,055 in the current year, a reduction of $4,561,828. Net favorable adjustments in the current period for non-cash items amounted to $5,272,731, which was comprised of $6,077,378 of favorable non-cash items, offset by $804,647 of negative non-cash items that did not affect operating cash flow. Additionally, there was a net increase in the use of operating cash flow for working capital items of $14,139,524. Net working capital use requirements for the year ended December 31, 2022, were $13,317,430, as compared to the prior year period net sources of working capital of $822,094, an increase in the use of working capital of $14,139,524. The source of working capital of $1,431,046 was attributable to changes in accounts payable for the comparable period, which was then offset by uses of working capital of $15,570,570 being applied to changes in accounts receivables, increased inventory levels due to supply chain constraints, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and accrued expenses and other liabilities. Our ability to generate cash from operations in future periods will depend in large part on our profitability, the rate and timing of collections of our accounts receivable, our inventory turns and our ability to manage other areas of working capital, including accounts payable and accrued expenses. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company generated cash of $3,908,323 in investing activities, as compared to $15,110,625 used during the prior year period in 2021, a net change of $19,018,948. The source of investing funds was attributable to the redemption of short-term investments and the sale of the Magma.com URL in 2022. Additionally, the Company continues to enhance the capabilities of its ERP system, and purchases test equipment for the engineering department. We do not anticipate any significant investments not normally anticipated in the ordinary course of business in the near term. 52 Financing Activities Given the current economic, financial, and geopolitical instability, the Company believes it is imperative to maintain opportunities for additional financial resources to ensure financial stability during trying economic times. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company generated $1,946,553 in cash, with the majority coming from borrowing activities for OSS Europe for working capital to finance inventory purchases, as compared to the cash provided by financing activities of $8,430,712 during the year ended December 31, 2021. The main differences between the comparative periods are new borrowings from OSS Europe, for inventories, and the proceeds received in the prior year from a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of $10,000,000 that was completed in March 2021. Contractual obligations and commitments The following table sets forth our non-cancellable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022. Contractual Obligations: Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 Years Notes payable $ 3,361,741 $ 2,952,447 $ 409,294 $ - $ - Operating leases 933,837 536,588 397,249 - - Total $ 4,295,578 $ 3,489,035 $ 806,543 $ - $ - We have made certain indemnities, under which we may be required to make payments to an indemnified party, in relation to certain transactions. We indemnify our directors, officers, employees, and agents to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware. In connection with our facilities leases, we indemnify our lessors for certain claims arising from the use of our facilities. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. These indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments we could be obligated to make. Historically, we have not been obligated to make any payments for these obligations and no liabilities have been recorded for these indemnities. Known trends or uncertainties Although we have not seen any significant reduction in revenues to date due to consolidations, we have seen some consolidation in our industry during economic downturns. These consolidations have not had a negative effect on our total sales; however, should consolidations and downsizing in the industry continue to occur, those events could adversely impact our revenues and earnings going forward. As discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the world has been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and economic uncertainty, amongst other things. Inflation has risen, Federal Reserve interest rates have increased recently, and the general consensus among economists suggests that we should continue to expect a higher recession risk to continue over the next year. These factors, amongst other things, could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term, and could negatively affect our operations. Additionally, in March 2023, Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank were closed and taken over by the FDIC, which created significant market disruption and uncertainty for those who bank with those institutions, and which raised significant concern regarding the stability of the banking system in the United States, and in particular with respect to regional banks. If other banks and financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents may be threatened and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. With respect to our media and entertainment business, we are seeing an acceleration in our customers investment in cloud technology and a drive towards less intelligent compute capability at the edge to reduce the costs of their componentry. This is particularly true of their virtual products, which do not require the same level of ruggedization as this system is not typically operated in harsh environments and for which software is being developed to eventually provide a real-time cloud solution. As a result, we expect that our customer will transition to a lower cost, commodity type equipment solution. We anticipate that we will begin to experience a decrease in the demand for our high-compute, ruggedized media and entertainment focused equipment and our expertise in this area in the first half of 2023. 53 We believe that the need for improved productivity in the research and development activities directed toward developing new products and/or software will continue to result in increasing adoption of high-performance computers and interconnect technologies such as those we produce. New product and/or software developments in the specialized compute-business segment could result in increased revenues and earnings if they are accepted by our markets; however, there can be no assurances that new products and/or software will result in significant improvements to revenues or earnings. For competitive reasons, we do not disclose all of our new product development activities. In the first quarter of 2023, we implemented certain internal organizational changes to align our US-based operations with, and to further support and accelerate, our strategy to focus on the AI Transportables industry, and our military business in particular. In furtherance of this strategy and our goals, on February 9, 2023, we announced that David Raun, the Companys chief executive officer, will be stepping down, effective upon the appointment of his successor. Mr. Raun will continue to serve as a member of the Companys board of directors. Also, the potential for growth in new markets is uncertain. We will continue to explore these opportunities until such time as we either generate sales or determine that resources would be more efficiently used elsewhere. Inflation We experienced some affects due to inflation during the most recent period, including increased product pricing due to semiconductor product shortages, increased transportation costs due to increases in the cost of energy and general price increases due to inflation in the economy. Although the Company attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to our customers, the Companys ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Companys products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be fully recovered. These increasing costs are being aggressively managed by the Company and actions are being taken to minimize the impact to the Company, particularly in the purchase of inventories to minimizing price increases. Inflation affects the Companys manufacturing costs, distribution costs and operating expenses. Off balance sheet arrangements Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Stockholder transactions See Note 10 to the accompanying financial statements for a discussion regarding our stockholder transactions for the relevant periods. Critical accounting policies and estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management must make a variety of decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. These decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In making these decisions, management applies its judgment based on its understanding and analysis of the relevant circumstances and our historical experience. Our accounting policies and estimates that are most critical to the presentation of our results of operations and financial condition, and which require the greatest use of judgments and estimates by management, are designated as our critical accounting policies. See further discussion of our critical accounting policies under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report. We periodically re-evaluate and adjust our critical accounting policies as circumstances change. Revenue Recognition 54 The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Companys performance obligations are satisfied over time as work is performed or at a point in time. The majority of the Companys revenue is recognized at a point in time when products ship and control is transferred to the customer. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: (i) identification of the contract with a customer; (ii) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determination of the transaction price; (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. The Companys contracts are executed through a combination of written agreements along with purchase orders with all customers including certain general terms and conditions. Generally, purchase orders entail products, quantities and prices, which define the performance obligations of each party and are approved and accepted by the Company. The Companys contracts with customers do not include extended payment terms. Payment terms vary by contract type and type of customer and generally range from 30 to 60 days from invoice. Additionally, taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer and deposited with the relevant government authority, are excluded from revenue. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer adjusted for estimated variable consideration, if any. Variable consideration may include discounts, rights of return, refunds, and other similar obligations. The Company allocates the transaction price to each distinct product and service based on its relative standalone selling price. The standalone selling price for products primarily involves the cost to produce the deliverable plus the anticipated margin and for services is estimated based on the Companys approved list price. In the normal course of business, the Company does not accept product returns unless the items are defective as manufactured. The Company establishes provisions for estimated returns and warranties. In addition, the Company does not typically provide customers with the right to a refund and does not transact for noncash consideration. Customer agreements include one vendor managed inventory program. The Company recognizes revenue under this arrangement when all of the following criteria are met: (i) the goods have been identified separately as belonging to the customer; (ii) the goods are ready for physical shipment to the customer; (iii) the Company does not have the ability to direct the goods to another customer; and (iv) the arrangement was requested by the customer and that the customer has sufficiently explained a substantial business purpose for the arrangement. Management also considers whether the customer's custodial risks are insured and whether modifications to the Company's normal billing and credit terms were required. Revenues on certain fixed-price contracts where we provide engineering services, prototypes and completed products are recognized based upon percentage of completion or based upon milestones delivered that are provided during the period and compared to milestone goals to be provided over the entire contract. These services require that we perform significant, extensive, and complex design, development, modification or implementation of our customers systems. Performance will often extend over long periods of time, and our right to receive future payment depends on our future performance in accordance with the agreement. The percentage-of-completion methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed, on a current cumulative cost to estimated total cost basis, using a reasonably consistent profit margin over the performance period. Due to the long-term nature of these projects, developing the estimates of costs often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues and costs, and such revisions are reflected in earnings in the period in which the revision becomes known. The Company recognizes contract assets or unbilled receivables related to revenue recognized for services completed but not yet invoiced to the clients. Unbilled receivables are recorded as accounts receivable when the Company has an unconditional right to contract consideration. A contract liability is recognized as deferred revenue when the Company invoices clients in advance of performing the related services under the terms of a contract. Deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the Company has satisfied the related performance obligation. 55 On certain contracts with several of the Companys significant customers, the Company receives payments in advance of manufacturing. Advanced payments are recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue recognition criteria described above has been met. Related billings that are in excess of revenue earned are deferred and recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet until the related services are provided. Leases On January 1, 2022, the Company adopted ASC 842 using the Transition method. The reported results for the year ended December 31, 2022, reflect the application of the guidance of ASC 842 while the reported results for the year ended December 31, 2021, were prepared under the guidance of ASC 840. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). The standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases. A lease must be classified as a finance lease if any of the following criteria are met: the lease transfers ownership of the asset by the end of the lease term, the lease contains an option to purchase the asset that is reasonably certain to be exercised, the lease term is for a major part of the remaining useful life of the asset or the present value of the lease payments equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not meet any of these criteria. The Company determines if a contract is or contains a lease at inception or modification of a contract. A contract is or contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration. Control over the use of the identified asset means the lessee has both (a) the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset and (b) the right to direct the use of the asset. This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Right-of-use assets and liabilities are initially measured at cost, which primarily comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, plus any initial direct costs incurred, consisting mainly of brokerage commissions, less any lease incentives received. All right of use assets are reviewed for impairment. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future minimum lease payments over the expected lease term at the commencement date of each lease. The Company measures and records a right-of-use asset and lease liability based on the discount rate implicit in the lease, if known. Generally, the Company cannot determine the interest rate implicit in the lease because it does not have access to the lessor's estimated residual value or the amount of the lessor's deferred initial direct costs. In these cases where the discount rate implicit in the lease is not known, the Company measures the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities using a discount rate equal to the Company's incremental borrowing rate it pays on current debt instruments or would have to pay on a collateralized basis to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments under similar terms. The Company and its subsidiary have no leases classified as finance leases. The Company and its subsidiary currently lease plant, office facilities and equipment under operating leases expiring through August 2024. As of December 31, 2022, the weighted average remaining lease term for our operating leases was 20.2 months. The weighted average discount rate for our operating leases was 12.8%. The Companys lease agreements may include options to extend the lease following the initial term. On a case-by-case basis, the Companys management determines if it is reasonably certain to exercise the renewal option; such renewal options were included in determining the initial lease term. We elected the package of practical expedients in transition for leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2022, and therefore did not reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts are, or contain, leases, (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (iii) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We elected to use hindsight for transition when considering judgments and estimates such as assessments of lease options to extend, or terminate, a lease, or to purchase the underlying asset. As result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company recognized an accumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the 2022 fiscal year of $44,533. For all asset classes, we elected to (i) not recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less and (ii) not separate non-lease components from lease components, and we have accounted for combined lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. Variable lease payments associated with the Companys leases are recognized upon occurrence of the event, activity, or circumstance in the lease agreement on which those payments are 56 assessed. For those leases that are subsequently modified for terms, such changes may require a remeasurement of the lease liability. Lease expense for operating leases consists of the lease payments plus any initial direct costs, primarily brokerage commissions, and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Included in lease expense are any variable lease payments incurred in the period that were not included in the initial lease liability. Lease expense for finance leases consists of the amortization of the right-of-use asset on a straight-line basis over the lease term and interest expense determined on an amortized cost basis. The lease payments are allocated between a reduction of the lease liability and interest expense. Stock-Based Compensation We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based awards granted to our employees and other service providers, including stock options granted under the 2017 Plan, 2015 and 2011 Stock Option Plans that were approved in October 2017 (the "2017 Plan"), December 2015 (the 2015 Plan) and in December 2011 (the 2011 Plan), respectively, based on the estimated fair value of the award. We used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock option awards granted under the 2017 Plan, 2015 Plan and 2011 Plan. We recognize the fair value of stock options granted under the 2017 Plan and 2015 Plan as stock-based compensation on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We record expense net of anticipated forfeitures and adjust the annual expense based upon actual experience. Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (RSUs) is measured at the fair value on the grant date and recognized as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the related service period. The fair value of stock awards is based on the quoted price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of expected dividends not received during the vesting period. Our use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected term of the option, expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. The assumptions used in our option pricing model represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair Value of Common Stock. Since the completion of our IPO, we use the closing quoted price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market on the date of grant. Expected Term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumptions were determined based on the vesting terms and contractual lives of the options, using the simplified method. Expected Volatility. We use the volatility of our own share price. Risk-Free Interest Rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with remaining terms similar to the expected term on the options. Dividend Rate. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends and do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and, therefore, use an expected dividend yield of zero. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimation process, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. Inventory Valuation We value our inventory at the lower of cost or its estimated net realizable value. We use the average cost method for purposes of determining cost, which approximates the first-in, first-out method. We write down inventory for excess and obsolescence based upon a review of historical usage and assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses. Actual demand, product mix and alternative usage may be lower than those that we project, and this difference could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin if inventory write-downs beyond those initially recorded become necessary. Alternatively, if actual demand, product mix and alternative usage are more favorable than those we estimated at the time of such a write-down, our gross margin could be favorably impacted in future periods. 57 Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets We evaluate our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in overall economic conditions, a decline in our market capitalization, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. Regardless, goodwill is tested for potential impairment at least annually. Income Taxes The determination of income tax expense requires us to make certain estimates and judgments concerning the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as the deductions and credits that are available to reduce taxable income. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. In evaluating our ability to recover deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If it becomes more likely than not that a tax asset will be used for which a reserve has been provided, we reverse the related valuation allowance. If our actual future taxable income by tax jurisdiction differs from estimates, additional allowances or reversals of reserves may be necessary. We use a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. First, the tax position must be evaluated to determine the likelihood that it will be sustained upon external examination. If the tax position is deemed more-likely-than-not to be sustained, the tax position is then assessed to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The amount of the benefit that may be recognized is the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any changes to these positions as a result of tax audits, tax laws or other facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to operations. Business Combinations We utilize the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations and allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the various tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. We primarily establish fair value using the income approach based upon a discounted cash flow model. The income approach requires the use of many assumptions and estimates including future revenues and expenses, as well as discount factors and income tax rates. Other estimates include: estimated step-ups or write-downs for fixed assets and inventory; estimated fair values of intangible assets; and estimated income tax assets and liabilities assumed from the target. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the business acquisition date, our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price allocation period, which is generally no longer than one year from the business acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. For changes in the valuation of intangible assets between preliminary and final purchase price allocation, the related amortization is adjusted in the period it occurs. Subsequent to the purchase price allocation period any adjustment to assets acquired or liabilities assumed is included in operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined. Should we issue shares of our common stock in an acquisition, we will be required to estimate the fair value of the shares issued. Recent accounting pronouncements Per the Companys consolidated financial statements Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, we may be implementing certain accounting changes as required by FASB. See Note 2 for further details. 58 Recently implemented accounting pronouncements Effective January 1, 2022, the Company implemented ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02). Under ASU 2016-02, the Company recognized for all leases a lease liability, which is our obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis and a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessees right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. The Company elected to use the transition method and reflected the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily associated with borrowing on revolving lines of credit denominated in both U.S. dollars and Euros. We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities for our variable rate borrowings. The Federal Reserve interest rates have increased recently and may increase further in the near term. Concentration of credit risk At times, deposits held with financial institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), of which both provide basic deposit coverage with limits up to $250,000 per owner. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had $2,378,546 of cash in our accounts that exceeded the insurance limits. The Company has not experienced any such losses in these accounts, and believes that the financial institutions at which such amounts are held are stable; however, no assurances can be provided. In Germany, the deposit insurance is 100,000 per bank, per customer. OSS Europe has funds on deposit in both Euro and U.S. dollar denominations of 145,599 (US$156,261) with banks in excess of the insurance limits. We provide credit to our customers in the normal course of business. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and limit the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary. Foreign currency risk We operate primarily in the United States. Foreign sales of products and services are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We also conduct business outside the United States through OSS Europe our foreign subsidiary in Germany, where business is largely transacted in non-U.S. dollar currencies, particularly the Euro, which is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure from changes in the exchange rates of local currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. OSS GmbH operates as an extension of OSS domestic operations and acquired Bressner Technology GmbH in October 2018. The functional currency of OSS GmbH is the Euro. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are remeasured to the functional currency at the average exchange rate in effect during the period. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Consequently, changes in the exchange rates of the currencies may impact the translation of the foreign subsidiaries statements of operations into U.S. dollars, which may in turn affect our consolidated statement of operations. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Derivative financial instruments We may employ derivatives to manage certain currency market risks through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives are designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). We hedge a portion of the exchange risk involved in anticipation of highly probable foreign currency-denominated transactions. In anticipation of these transactions, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to provide currency at a fixed rate. 59 Non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA We believe that the use of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, is helpful for an investor to assess the performance of the Company. The Company defines adjusted EBITDA as income (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, acquisition expense, impairment of long-lived assets, financing costs, fair value adjustments from purchase accounting, stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to discontinued operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a companys non-cash operating expenses, we believe that providing a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes non-cash and non-recurring expenses allows for meaningful comparisons between our core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing us with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating our own core business operating results over different periods of time. Our adjusted EBITDA measure may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in our industry, as other companies in our industry may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently, particularly related to non-recurring and unusual items. Our adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income or as an indication of operating performance or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. We do not consider adjusted EBITDA to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net (loss) income $ (2,229,055 ) $ 2,332,773 Depreciation and amortization 1,050,299 1,480,608 Stock-based compensation expense 1,991,117 1,695,105 Interest income (237,751 ) (244,382 ) Interest expense 162,391 527,139 PPP loan and interest forgiveness - (1,514,354 ) Provision for income taxes 4,423,597 605,675 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,160,598 $ 4,882,564 Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS excludes the impact of certain items and, therefore, has not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. We believe that exclusion of certain selected items assists in providing a more complete understanding of our underlying results and trends and allows for comparability with our peer company index and industry. We use this measure along with the corresponding GAAP financial measures to manage our business and to evaluate our performance compared to prior periods and the marketplace. The Company defines non-GAAP income (loss) as income or (loss) before amortization, stock-based compensation, expenses related to discontinued operations, and acquisition costs. Adjusted EPS expresses adjusted income (loss) on a per share basis using weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measures used by other companies. We expect to continue to incur expenses similar to the adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted EPS financial adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. 60 The following table reconciles net income to adjusted EPS and diluted earnings per share: For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net (loss) income $ (2,229,055 ) $ 2,332,773 Amortization of intangibles 63,231 556,842 Stock-based compensation expense 1,991,117 1,695,105 PPP loan and interest forgiveness - (1,514,354 ) Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (174,707 ) $ 3,070,366 Non-GAAP net (loss) income per share: Basic $ (0.01 ) $ 0.17 Diluted $ (0.01 ) $ 0.16 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 19,730,698 18,305,878 Diluted 19,730,698 19,503,737 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure for reporting cash flow, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, which includes capitalized software development costs. We believe free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on cash available for investments and acquisitions after making capital investments required to support ongoing business operations and long-term value creation. We believe that trends in our free cash flow can be valuable indicators of our operating performance and liquidity. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be computed in the same manner as similarly titled measures used by other companies. We expect to continue to incur expenditures similar to the free cash flow adjustments described above, and investors should not infer from our presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure that these expenditures reflect all of our obligations which require cash. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow: For the Year Ended December 31, Cash flow: 2022 2021 Cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (7,806,025 ) $ 5,622,596 Capital expenditures (529,908 ) (563,815 ) Free cash flow $ (8,335,933 ) $ 5,058,781 61