Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (in thousands, except headcount, ratios, time periods and percentages) Unless otherwise noted, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10Q to OneSpan, Company, we, our, and us refer to OneSpan Inc. and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10Q, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable U.S. Securities laws, including statements regarding the potential benefits, performance, and functionality of our products and solutions, including future offerings; our expectations, beliefs, plans, operations and strategies relating to our business and the future of our business; our acquisitions to date and our strategy related to future acquisitions; and our expectations regarding our financial performance in the future. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "seek", "believe", "plan", "estimate", "anticipate", expect", "intend", and statements that an event or result "may", "will", "should", "could", or "might" occur or be achieved and any other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions which, if they do not fully materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could materially affect our business and financial results include, but are not limited to: market acceptance of our products and solutions and competitors offerings; the potential effects of technological changes; our ability to effectively identify, purchase and integrate acquisitions; the execution of our transformative strategy on a global scale; the increasing frequency and sophistication of hacking attacks; claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others; changes in customer requirements; price competitive bidding; changing laws, government regulations or policies; pressures on price levels; investments in new products or businesses that may not achieve expected returns; impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets causing a significant charge to earnings; exposure to increased economic and operational uncertainties from operating a global business as well as those factors set forth in our Form 10-K (and other forms) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, 19 Table of Contents we direct you to the risk factors contained under the captions " Risk Factors " and " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " in our Form 10-K. In addition, we direct you to our financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements contained in this Report. Our SEC filings and other important information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.onespan.com . We do not have any intent, and disclaim any obligation, to update the forward-looking information to reflect events that occur, circumstances that exist, or changes in our expectations after the date of this Report. COVID-19 Pandemic Response and Impact In March 2020, the World Health Organization recognized a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic. In response to the pandemic, the United States and various foreign, state and local governments have, among other actions, imposed travel and business restrictions and required or advised communities in which we do business to adopt stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines, causing some businesses to adjust, reduce or suspend operating activities. The pandemic and the various governments response have caused significant and widespread uncertainty, volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global economies, including in the regions in which we operate. Outlook and Financial Results Through March 31, 2020, we have not experienced a material adverse impact to our business, operations or financial results as a result of the pandemic. The financial services industry response to the pandemic is accelerating the adoption of mobile and cloud technologies and of the technologies needed to protect those channels. Our fraud prevention and process digitization technologies, and ability to deliver on a global basis currently have us well positioned in this environment, and may have contributed to higher revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. However, in the current and future periods, we may experience weaker customer demand, requests for discounts or extended payment terms, customer bankruptcies, supply chain disruption, employee staffing constraints and difficulties, government restrictions or other factors that could negatively impact the Company and its business, operations and financial results. As we cannot predict the duration or scope of the pandemic or its impact on economic and financial markets, any negative impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated, but it could be material. We continue to monitor closely the Companys financial health and liquidity and the impact of the pandemic on the Company. We are able to serve the needs of our customers while taking steps to protect the health and safety of our employees, customers, partners, and communities. See Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Company. Overview We design, develop and market digital solutions for identity, security, and business productivity that protect and facilitate electronic transactions via mobile and connected devices. We are a global leader in providing anti-fraud and digital transaction management solutions to financial institutions and other businesses. Our solutions secure access to online accounts, data, assets, and applications for global enterprises; provide tools for application developers to easily integrate security functions into their web-based and mobile applications; and facilitate end-to-end financial agreement automation including digital identity verification, customer due diligence, electronic signature, secure storage and document management. Our core technologies, multi-factor authentication, identity verification and transaction signing, strengthen the process of preventing hacking attacks against online and mobile transactions to allow companies to transact business safely with remote customers. We offer cloud based and on premises solutions using both open standards and proprietary technologies. Some of our proprietary technologies are patented. Our products and services are used for authentication, fraud mitigation, e-signing transactions and documents, and identity management in Business-to-Business (B2B), Business-to-Employee (B2E) and Business-to-Consumer (B2C) environments. Our target market is business processes using electronic interface, particularly the Internet, where there is risk of unauthorized access. Our products can increase security 20 Table of Contents associated with accessing business processes, reduce losses from unauthorized access and reduce the cost of the process by automating activities previously performed manually. Our Business Model We offer our products through a product sales and licensing model or through our services platform, which includes our cloud-based service offering. Our solutions are sold worldwide through our direct sales force, as well as through distributors, resellers, systems integrators, and original equipment manufacturers. Our sales force is able to offer customers a choice of an on-site implementation using our traditional on-premises model or a cloud implementation for some solutions using our services platform. Industry Growth We believe the markets for authentication, fraud mitigation, agreement automation, and electronic signature solutions will continue to grow driven by new government regulations, growing awareness of the impact of cyber-crime, increasing focus on the digital experience for mobile and online users, and the growth in electronic commerce. The issues driving growth are global; however, the rate of adoption in each country is a function of local culture, competitive position, economic conditions, and the use of technology may vary significantly. Economic Conditions Our revenue may vary significantly with changes in the economic conditions in the countries in which we currently sell products. With our current concentration of revenue in Europe and specifically in the banking and finance vertical market, significant changes in the economic outlook for the European banking market may have a significant effect on our revenue. The COVID-19 pandemic and the various governments response have caused significant and widespread uncertainty, volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global economies, including in the regions in which we operate. See Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Company. Cybersecurity Risks Our use of technology is increasing and is critical in three primary areas of our business: 1. Software and information systems that we use to help us run our business more efficiently and cost effectively; 2. The products we have traditionally sold and continue to sell to our customers for integration into their software applications contain technology that incorporates the use of secret numbers and encryption technology; and 3. New products and services that we introduced to the market are focused on processing information through our servers or in the cloud. We believe that the risks and consequences of potential incidents in each of the above areas are different. In the case of the information systems we use to help us run our business, we believe that an incident could disrupt our ability to take orders or deliver product to our customers, but such a delay in these activities would not have a material impact on our overall results. To minimize this risk, we actively use various forms of security and monitor the use of our systems regularly to detect potential incidents as soon as possible. 21 Table of Contents In the case of products that we have traditionally sold, we believe that the risk of a potential cyber incident is minimal. We offer our customers the ability to either create the secret numbers themselves or have us create the numbers on their behalf. When asked to create the numbers, we do so in a secure environment with limited physical access and store the numbers on a system that is not connected to any other network, including other OneSpan networks, and similarly, is not connected to the Internet. In the case of our cloud-based solutions, which involve the processing of customer information, we believe a cyber incident could have a material impact on our business. While our revenue from cloud-based solutions comprises a minority of our revenue today, we believe that these solutions will provide substantial future growth. A cyber incident involving these solutions in the future could substantially impair our ability to grow the business and we could suffer significant monetary and other losses and significant reputational harm. To minimize the risk, we review our product security and procedures on a regular basis. Our reviews include the processes and software code we are currently using as well as the hosting platforms and procedures that we employ. We mitigate the risk of cyber incidents through a series of reviews, tests, tools and training. Certain insurance coverages may apply to certain cyber incidents. Overall, we expect the cost of securing our networks will increase in future periods, whether through increased staff, systems or insurance coverage. While we did not experience any cyber incidents in the first three months of 2020 that had a significant impact on our business, it is possible that we could experience an incident in 2020 or future years, which could result in unanticipated costs. Currency Fluctuation During the three months ended March 31, 2020, approximately 87% of our revenue was generated outside of the United States. While the majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States, a significant amount of our revenue earned during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was denominated in U.S. Dollars. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we estimate that approximately 44% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. Dollars. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2020, approximately 70% of our operating expenses were incurred outside of the United States. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates, especially the Euro exchange rate and the Canadian Dollar exchange rate, can have a significant impact on revenue and expenses. In general, to minimize the net impact of currency fluctuations on operating income, we attempt to denominate an amount of billings in a currency such that it would provide a hedge against the operating expenses incurred in that currency. We expect that changes in currency rates may also impact our future results if we are unable to match amounts of revenue with our operating expenses in the same currency. If the amount of our revenue in Europe denominated in Euros continues as it is now or declines, we may not be able to balance fully the exposures of currency exchange rates on revenue and operating expenses. The financial position and the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Switzerland, Singapore and Canada, are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. Dollars using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates generated other comprehensive loss of $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, and other comprehensive income of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. These amounts are included as a separate component of stockholders equity. The functional currency for our subsidiaries in Switzerland, Singapore and Canada is the U.S. Dollar. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in the consolidated statements of operations in other income (expense), net. Foreign exchange transaction losses aggregated $0.5 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively. 22 Table of Contents Components of Operating Results Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of our hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, maintenance and support, and professional services. We believe comparison of revenues between periods is heavily influenced by the timing of orders and shipments reflecting the transactional nature of significant parts of our business. Product and license revenue . Product and license revenue includes hardware products and software licenses, which can be provided on a perpetual or term basis. Service and other revenue . Service and other revenue includes subscription solutions (which is our definition of software-as-a-service solutions), maintenance and support, and professional services. Cost of Goods Sold Our total cost of goods sold consists of cost of product and license revenue and cost of service and other revenue. We expect our cost of goods sold to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Cost of product and license revenue . Cost of product and license revenue primarily consists of direct product and license costs. Cost of service and other revenue . Cost of service and other revenue primarily consists of costs related to subscription solutions, including personnel and equipment costs, and personnel costs of employees providing professional services and maintenance and support. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, or gross margin, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including our average selling price, manufacturing costs, the mix of products sold, and the mix of revenue among products, subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margins to fluctuate over time depending on these factors. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are generally based on anticipated revenue levels and fixed over short periods of time. As a result, small variations in revenue may cause significant variations in the period-to-period comparisons of operating income or operating income as a percentage of revenue. Generally, the most significant factor driving our operating expenses is headcount. Direct compensation and benefit plan expenses generally represent between 55% and 65% of our operating expenses, respectively. In addition, a number of other expense categories are directly related to headcount. We attempt to manage our headcount within the context of the economic environments in which we operate and the investments we believe we need to make for our infrastructure to support future growth and for our products to remain competitive. Historically, operating expenses have been impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates. We estimate the change in currency rates in the first three months of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately $0.5 million. The comparison of operating expenses can also be impacted significantly by costs related to our stock-based and long-term incentive plans. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 included $1.7 million of 23 Table of Contents expenses related to stock-based and long-term incentive plan costs compared to $1.1 million of stock-based and long-term incentive plan cost for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, commissions and bonuses, trade shows, marketing programs and other marketing activities, travel, outside consulting costs, and long-term incentive compensation. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in sales resources in key focus areas, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and long-term incentive compensation. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our future solutions, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, legal and other professional fees, and long term incentive compensation. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Amortization and impairment of intangible assets . Acquired intangible assets are amortized over their respective amortization periods, and are periodically evaluated for impairment. Interest Income, Net Interest income, net consists of income earned on our cash equivalents and short term investments. Our cash equivalents and short term investments are invested in short-term instruments at current market rates. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries and other miscellaneous non-operational expenses. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate reflects our global structure related to the ownership of our intellectual property (IP). All our IP in our traditional authentication business is owned by two subsidiaries, one in the U.S. and one in Switzerland. These two subsidiaries have entered into agreements with most of the other OneSpan entities under which those other entities provide services to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries on either a percentage of revenue or on a cost plus basis or both. Under this structure, the earnings of our service provider subsidiaries are relatively constant. These service provider companies tend to be in jurisdictions with higher effective tax rates. Fluctuations in earnings tend to flow to the U.S. company and Swiss company. In 2020, earnings flowing to the U.S. company are expected to be taxed at a rate of 21% to 25%, while earnings flowing to the Swiss company are expected to be taxed at a rate ranging from 16% to 17%, including Swiss withholding tax, the earnings could be taxed up to 25%. A Canadian and UK subsidiary currently sell and service global customers directly. As the majority of our revenues are generated outside of the U.S., our consolidated effective tax rate is strongly influenced by the effective tax rate of our foreign operations. Changes in the effective rate related to foreign operations reflect changes in the geographic mix of earnings and the tax rates in each of the countries in which it is earned. The statutory tax rate for the primary foreign tax jurisdictions ranges from 11% to 35%. 24 Table of Contents The geographic mix of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries primarily depends on the level of pretax income of our service provider subsidiaries and the benefit realized in Switzerland through the sales of product. The level of pretax income in our service provider subsidiaries is expected to vary based on: 1. the staff, programs and services offered on a yearly basis by the various subsidiaries as determined by management, or 2. the changes in exchange rates related to the currencies in the service provider subsidiaries, or 3. the amount of revenues that the service provider subsidiaries generate. For items 1 and 2 above, there is a direct impact in the opposite direction on earnings of the U.S. and Swiss entities. Any change from item 3 is generally expected to result in a larger change in income in the U.S. and Swiss entities in the direction of the change (increased revenues expected to result in increased margins/pretax profits and conversely decreased revenues expected to result in decreased margins/pretax profits). In addition to the provision of services, the intercompany agreements transfer the majority of the business risk to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries. As a result, the contracting subsidiaries pretax income is reasonably assured while the pretax income of the U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries varies directly with our overall success in the market. In November 2015, we acquired OneSpan Canada Inc. (formerly eSignLive), a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating losses and other tax carryforwards. The tax benefit of the carryforwards has been fully reserved as realization has not been deemed more likely than not. In May 2018, we acquired Dealflo Limited (Dealflo), a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating losses. The tax benefit of the loss carryforwards will be reserved to the extent they exceed the deferred tax liabilities recognized upon acquisition as realization has not been deemed more likely than not. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Revenue by Product: We generate revenue from the sale of our hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, professional services, and maintenance and support. Product and license revenue includes hardware products and software licenses. Service and other revenue includes subscription solutions (which is our definition of software-as-a-service solutions), maintenance and support, and professional services. Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue Product and license $ 38,260 $ 31,861 $ 6,399 20% Services and other 18,232 15,747 2,485 16% Total revenue $ 56,492 $ 47,608 $ 8,884 19% % of Total Revenue Product and license 68% 67% Services and other 32% 33% Total revenue increased $8.9 million or 19%, during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily driven by an increase in recurring revenue, which is the portion of our revenue subject to future renewal. Recurring revenue, comprised of subscription, term-based software licenses, and maintenance, support and other revenue, increased $10.0 million or 62% during the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Product and license revenue increased by $6.4 million or 20% during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was driven by higher software sales of $11.0 million, partially offset by lower hardware sales of $4.6 million. The software sales increase was comprised of an $8.1 million increase in revenue generated from term-based software licenses and a $2.9 million increase in revenue generated from perpetual software licenses. Services and other revenue increased by $2.5 million, or 16% during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was driven primarily by higher maintenance, subscription, and professional services revenue. We believe comparison of revenues between periods is heavily influenced by the timing of orders and shipments reflecting the transactional nature of significant parts of our business. As a result of the volatility in our business, we believe that the overall strength of our business is best evaluated over a longer term where the impact of transactions in any given period is not as significant as in a quarter-over-quarter comparison. Revenue by Geographic Regions: We classify our sales by customer location in three geographic regions: 1) EMEA, which includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; 2) the Americas, which includes sales in North, Central, and 26 Table of Contents South America; and 3) Asia Pacific (APAC), which also includes Australia, New Zealand, and India. The breakdown of revenue in each of our major geographic areas was as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue EMEA $ 33,726 $ 25,599 $ 8,127 32% Americas 12,333 12,731 (398) -3% APAC 10,433 9,278 1,155 12% Total revenue $ 56,492 $ 47,608 $ 8,884 19% % of Total Revenue EMEA 60% 54% Americas 22% 27% APAC 18% 19% Revenue generated in EMEA during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $8.1 million, or 32% higher than the three months ended March 31, 2019, driven by higher software license sales. Revenue generated in the Americas during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0.4 million, or 3% lower than the three months ended March 31, 2019, driven by a decrease in hardware revenue offset by an increase in maintenance revenue. Revenue generated in the Asia Pacific region during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $1.2 million, or 12% higher than the three months ended March 31, 2019, driven by higher software license revenue and maintenance revenue, offset by a decrease in hardware revenue. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ % Change (in thousands) Cost of goods sold Product and license $ 10,738 $ 11,316 $ (578) -5% Services and other 5,332 4,723 609 13% Total cost of goods sold $ 16,070 $ 16,039 $ 31 0% Gross profit $ 40,422 $ 31,569 8,853 28% Gross margin Product and license 72% 64% Services and other 71% 70% Total gross margin 72% 66% The cost of product and license revenue decreased $0.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in cost of product and license during the period was due to lower token costs, driven by lower hardware sales as a percentage of total revenue. The cost of services and other revenue increased by $0.6 million, or 13% during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in cost of services and other revenue is reflective of higher subscription revenue, which has increased cloud-based infrastructure costs. 27 Table of Contents Gross profit increased $8.9 million, or 28% during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Gross profit margin was 72% for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to 66% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The overall increase in profit margins for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was driven by both higher product and license margins, as well as higher services and other margins compared to the comparable period in the prior year. The majority of our inventory purchases are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our sales are denominated in various currencies including the Euro. The impact of changes in currency rates are estimated to have decreased revenue by approximately $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Had currency rates in 2020 been equal to rates in 2019, the gross profit margin would have been approximately 2 percentage points higher for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Operating costs Sales and marketing $ 14,859 $ 14,383 $ 476 3% Research and development 9,994 10,495 (501) -5% General and administrative 12,268 9,870 2,398 24% Amortization of intangible assets 2,354 2,348 6 0% Total operating costs $ 39,475 $ 37,096 $ 2,379 6% Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were $14.9 million, an increase of $0.5 million or 3%, from the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was driven by higher personnel costs related to a headcount increase, partially offset by lower commissions paid due to a revised commissions structure, and lower marketing spend. Average full-time sales, marketing, support, and operating employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 326 compared to 320 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Headcount was 2% higher for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, were $10.0 million, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 5%, from the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2020 was primarily driven by lower cloud computing costs for our test environment. Average full-time research and development employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 311, compared to 298 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Average headcount was approximately 4% higher for the three months ended March 31, 2020, when compared to the same period in 2019. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, were $12.3 million, an increase of $2.4 million or 24%, from the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily driven by higher personnel costs which included additional stock comp due to an increase in eligible participants. The increase in expense was also driven by higher consulting spend, additional expense for subscription software tools 28 Table of Contents implemented throughout 2019, and higher bad debt expense driven by the implementation of ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020. Average full-time general and administrative employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 114, compared to 110 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Average headcount was approximately 4% higher for the three months ended March 31, 2020, when compared to the same period in 2019. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $2.4 million, an increase of less than $0.1 million from the comparable period in 2019. Interest Income, net Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 207 $ 135 $ 72 53% Interest income, net was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $0.1 million for the same period in 2019. The increase in interest income, net reflects an increase in our cash equivalents and short term investment balance. Other Expense, net Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (338) $ (551) $ 213 -39% Other expense, net primarily includes subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries, exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, and other miscellaneous non-operational, non-recurring expenses. Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0.3 million, compared to $0.6 million for the comparable period of 2019. Lower expense was driven by losses resulting from foreign currency transactions. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ % Change (in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 718 $ (272) $ 990 NM The Company recorded income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 of $0.7 million, compared to a benefit of $(0.3) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was attributable to increased profits in the period excluding losses at entities where we cannot record a tax benefit. 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2020, we had net cash balances (total cash and cash equivalents) of $79.6 million and short-term investments of $25.7 million. Short term investments consist of U.S. treasury bills and notes, government agency notes, corporate notes and bonds, and high quality commercial paper with maturities at acquisition of more than three months and less than twelve months. At December 31, 2019, we had net cash balances of $84.3 million and short-term investments of $25.5 million. We are in a lease agreement that required a letter of credit in the amount of $0.8 million to secure the obligation. The restricted cash related to this letter of credit is recorded in other non-current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Our working capital at March 31, 2020 was $139.3 million compared to $137.5 million at December 31, 2019. As of March 31, 2020, we held $62.4 million of cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries outside of the United States. Of that amount, $61.8 million is not subject to repatriation restrictions, but may be subject to taxes upon repatriation. We believe that our financial resources are adequate to meet our operating needs over the next twelve months. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Cash used in: Operating activities $ (2,352) $ (3,737) Investing activities (1,671) (2,651) Financing activities (293) (218) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (342) (195) Operating Activities Cash generated by operating activities is primarily comprised of net income, as adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consist primarily of amortization and impairment of intangible assets, depreciation of property and equipment, and stock-based compensation. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases or decreases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs. We expect cash outflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in personnel cost as we grow our business. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash used in operating activities was $2.4 million, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $3.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease is primarily driven by higher net income and the timing of cash receipts accrued in deferred revenue. Investing Activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, and activity in connection with acquisitions. We expect to continue to purchase property and equipment to support the continued growth of our business as well to continue to invest in our infrastructure and activity in connection with acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, net cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease is related to the timing of the purchases and maturities of our short term investments. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policy Our accounting policies are fully described in Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Interim Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020. We believe our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, purchase accounting and related fair value measurements and accounting for income taxes.