Item 7 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (in thousands, except head count, ratios, time periods and percentages) The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below. Please see Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 at the beginning of this Form 10-K. The Company has excluded discussion of the comparison of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 from this Form 10-K., which can be found in the annual report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018 , filed on March 15, 2019. Overview We design, develop and market digital solutions for identity, security, and business productivity that protect and facilitate electronic transactions via mobile and connected devices. We are a global leader in providing anti-fraud and digital transaction management solutions to financial institutions and other businesses. Our solutions secure access to online accounts, data, assets, and applications for global enterprises; provide tools for application developers to easily integrate security functions into their web-based and mobile applications; and facilitate end-to-end financial agreement automation including digital identity verification, customer due diligence, electronic signature, secure storage, and document management. Our Trusted Identity platform technologies including Intelligent Adaptive Authentication, Risk Analytics and Secure Agreement Automation, along with our various multi-factor authentication, mobile app security and transaction signing technologies, enhance the ability of companies to prevent hacking attacks against online and mobile transactions and to safely transact business with remote customers. We offer cloud based and on-premises solutions using both open standards and proprietary technologies. Some of our proprietary technologies are patented. Our products and services are used for authentication, fraud mitigation, e-signing transactions and documents, and identity management in Business-to-Business (B2B), Business-to-Employee (B2E) and Business-to-Consumer (B2C) environments. Our target market is business processes using an electronic 27 Table of Contents interface, particularly the internet, where there is risk of account takeover or new account fraud. Our products can increase security associated with accessing business processes, reduce losses from unauthorized access, and reduce the cost of the process by automating activities previously performed manually. Online and mobile application owners and publishers benefit from our expertise in multi-factor authentication, document signing, transaction signing, application security, and in mitigating hacking attacks. Our convenient and proven security solutions enable low friction and trusted interactions between businesses, employees, and consumers across a variety of online and mobile platforms. Our primary growth strategy is to make digital banking more accessible, secure, easy and valuable. Our key growth objectives include: Expanding our portfolio of services that enable institutions to mitigate fraud, comply with regulations, easily on-board customers, and adaptively authenticate transactions; Automating and securing digital customer journeys with Secure Agreement Automation to remotely verify identities, mitigate application fraud and secure account opening and transactions; Increasing sales to existing customers and acquiring new customers; Driving increased demand for our products in new applications, new markets, and new territories; Expanding our channel partner ecosystem; and Strategically acquiring companies that expand our technology portfolio or customer base and increase our recurring revenue. Our Business Model We offer our products through a product sales and licensing model or through our services platform, which includes our cloud-based service offering. Our solutions are sold worldwide through our direct sales force, as well as through distributors, resellers, systems integrators, and original equipment manufacturers. Our sales force is able to offer customers a choice of an on-site implementation using our traditional on-premises model or a cloud implementation for some solutions using our services platform. Economic Conditions Our revenue may vary significantly with changes in the economic conditions in the countries in which we currently sell products. With our current concentration of revenue in Europe and specifically in the banking and finance vertical market, significant changes in the economic outlook for the European Banking market may have a significant effect on our revenue. Cybersecurity Risks Our use of technology is increasing and is critical in three primary areas of our business: 1. Software and information systems that we use to help us run our business more efficiently and cost effectively; 2. The products we have traditionally sold and continue to sell to our customers for integration into their software applications contain technology that incorporates the use of secret numbers and encryption technology; and 28 Table of Contents 3. New products and services that we introduced to the market are focused on processing information through our servers or in the cloud. We believe that the risks and consequences of potential incidents in each of the above areas are different. In the case of the information systems we use to help us run our business, we believe that an incident could disrupt our ability to take orders or deliver product to our customers, but such a delay in these activities would not have a material impact on our overall results. To minimize this risk, we actively use various forms of security and monitor the use of our systems regularly to detect potential incidents as soon as possible. In the case of products that we have traditionally sold, we believe that the risk of a potential cyber incident is minimal. We offer our customers the ability to either create the secret numbers themselves or have us create the numbers on their behalf. When asked to create the numbers, we do so in a secure environment with limited physical access and store the numbers on a system that is not connected to any other network, including other OneSpan networks, and similarly, is not connected to the internet. In the case of our cloud-based solutions, which involve the processing of customer information, we believe a cyber-incident could have a material impact on our business. While our revenue from cloud-based solutions comprises a minority of our revenue today, we believe that these solutions will provide substantial future growth. A cyber incident involving these solutions in the future could substantially impair our ability to grow the business and we could suffer significant monetary and other losses and significant reputational harm. To minimize the risk, we review our product security and procedures on a regular basis. Our reviews include the processes and software code we are currently using as well as the hosting platforms and procedures that we employ. We mitigate the risk of cyber incidents through a series of reviews, tests, tools and training. Certain insurance coverages may apply to certain cyber incidents. Overall, we expect the cost of securing our networks will increase in future periods, whether through increased staff, systems or insurance coverage. While we did not experience any cyber incident in 2019, 2018, or 2017 that had a significant impact on our business, it is possible that we could experience an incident in 2020 or future years, which could result in unanticipated costs. Currency Fluctuations In 2019, approximately 76% of our revenue and approximately 72% of our operating expenses were generated/incurred outside of the U.S. In 2018, approximately 74% of our revenue and approximately 79% of our operating expenses were generated/incurred outside of the U.S. In 2017, approximately 72% of our revenue and approximately 76% of our operating expenses were generated/incurred outside of the U.S. While the majority of our revenue is generated outside of the U.S., the majority of our revenue is billed in U.S. Dollars. In 2019, approximately 62% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. Dollars, 29% was denominated in Euros and 9% was denominated in other currencies. In 2018, approximately 61% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. Dollars, 34% was denominated in Euros and 5% was denominated in other currencies. In 2017, approximately 66% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. Dollars, 29% was denominated in Euros, and 5% was denominated in other currencies. In general, to minimize the net impact of currency fluctuations on operating income, we attempt to denominate an amount of billings in a currency such that it would provide a hedge against the operating expenses being incurred in that currency. We expect that changes in currency rates may also impact our future results if we are unable to match amounts of revenue with our operating expenses in the same currency. If the amount of our revenue in Europe denominated in Euros continues as it is now or declines, we may not be able to balance fully the exposures of currency exchange rates on revenue and operating expenses. 29 Table of Contents The financial position and the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Switzerland, Singapore and Canada, are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. Dollars using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates generated a comprehensive gain of $1.5 million in 2019, comprehensive loss of $5.5 million in 2018 and comprehensive income of $4.0 million in 2017. These amounts are included as a separate component of stockholders equity. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in Singapore, Switzerland, and Canada are measured in U.S. Dollars. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in the consolidated statements of operations as other non-operating income/expense. We reported foreign exchange transaction losses of $1.5 million, $0.2 million, and $0.5 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Components of Operating Results Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of our hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, and services. We believe comparison of revenues between periods is heavily influenced by the timing of orders and shipments reflecting the transactional nature of our business. Product and license revenue . Product and license revenue includes hardware products and software licenses. Service and other revenue . Service and other revenue includes software as a service (SaaS) solutions, maintenance and support, and professional services. Cost of Goods Sold Our total cost of goods sold consists of cost of product and license revenue and cost of service and other revenue. We expect our cost of goods sold to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Cost of product and license revenue . Cost of product and license revenue primarily consists of direct product costs. Cost of service and other revenue . Cost of service and other revenue primarily consists of costs related to SaaS solutions, including personnel and equipment costs, and personnel costs of employees providing professional services and maintenance and support. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, or gross margin, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including our average selling price, manufacturing costs, the mix of products sold, and the mix of revenue among products, subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margins to fluctuate over time depending on these factors. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are generally based on anticipated revenue levels and fixed over short periods of time. As a result, small variations in revenue may cause significant variations in the period-to-period comparisons of operating income or operating income as a percentage of revenue. 30 Table of Contents Generally, the most significant factor driving our operating expenses is headcount. Direct compensation and benefit plan expenses generally represent between 55% and 65% of our operating expenses. In addition, a number of other expense categories are directly related to headcount. We attempt to manage our headcount within the context of the economic environments in which we operate and the investments we believe we need to make for our infrastructure to support future growth and for our products to remain competitive. Historically, operating expenses have been impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates. We estimate the change in currency rates in 2019 compared to 2018 resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately $3.1 million in 2019. The comparison of operating expenses can also be impacted significantly by costs related to our stock-based and long-term incentive plans. For full-year 2019, 2018, and 2017, operating expenses included $5.3 million, $6.1 million, and $5.4 million, respectively, related to stock-based and long-term incentive plans. Long-term incentive plan compensation expense includes both cash and stock-based incentives. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, commissions and bonuses, trade shows, marketing programs and other marketing activities, travel, outside consulting costs, and long-term incentive compensation. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in sales resources in key focus areas, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and long-term incentive compensation. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our future solutions, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, legal and other professional fees, and long-term incentive compensation. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Amortization/impairment of intangible assets . Acquired intangible assets are amortized over their respective amortization periods. Interest Income, Net Interest income consists of income earned on our cash equivalents and short term investments. Our cash equivalents and short term investments are invested in short-term instruments at current market rates. Other Income, Net Other income, net primarily includes exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries and other miscellaneous non-operational expenses. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate reflects our global structure related to the ownership of our intellectual property (IP). All our IP in our traditional authentication business is owned by two subsidiaries, one in the U.S. and one in Switzerland. These two subsidiaries have entered into agreements with most of the other OneSpan entities under which those other entities provide services to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries on either a percentage of revenue or on a cost plus basis or both. Under this structure, the earnings of our service provider subsidiaries are relatively constant. These service provider companies tend to be in jurisdictions with higher effective tax rates. Fluctuations in earnings tend to flow to the U.S. company and Swiss company. In 2019, earnings flowing to the U.S. company are expected to be taxed at a rate of 21% to 25%, while earnings flowing to the Swiss company are expected to be taxed at a rate ranging from 10% to 21%. Our Canadian subsidiary currently sells and services global customers directly, as does a UK subsidiary. 31 Table of Contents As the majority of our revenues are generated outside of the U.S., our consolidated effective tax rate is strongly influenced by the effective tax rate of our foreign operations. Changes in the effective rate related to foreign operations reflect changes in the geographic mix of earnings and the tax rates in each of the countries in which it is earned. The statutory tax rate for the primary foreign tax jurisdictions ranges from 10% to 36%. The geographic mix of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries primarily depends on the level of pretax income of our service provider subsidiaries and the benefit realized in Switzerland through the sales of product. The level of pretax income in our service provider subsidiaries is expected to vary based on: 1. the staff, programs and services offered on a yearly basis by the various subsidiaries as determined by management, or 2. the changes in exchange rates related to the currencies in the service provider subsidiaries, or 3. the amount of revenues that the service provider subsidiaries generate. For items 1 and 2 above, there is a direct impact in the opposite direction on earnings of the U.S. and Swiss entities. Any change from item 3 is generally expected to result in a larger change in income in the U.S. and Swiss entities in the direction of the change (increased revenues expected to result in increased margins/pretax profits and conversely decreased revenues expected to result in decreased margins/pretax profits). In addition to the provision of services, the intercompany agreements transfer the majority of the business risk to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries. As a result, the contracting subsidiaries pretax income is reasonably assured while the pretax income of the U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries varies directly with our overall success in the market. In 2015, we acquired OneSpan Canada Inc., a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating loss and other tax carryforwards. The tax benefit of the carryforwards has been fully reserved as realization has not been deemed more likely than not. In May 2018, we acquired Dealflo, a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating losses. The tax benefit of the loss carryforwards will be reserved to the extent they exceed deferred tax liabilities as the realization has not been deemed more likely than not. Results of Operations The following tables summarize our consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Years ended December 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands) Revenue Product and license $ 184,173 $ 152,977 $ 31,196 20% Services and other 70,397 59,303 11,094 19% Total revenue $ 254,570 $ 212,280 $ 42,290 20% Revenue by geographic region EMEA $ 147,027 $ 103,293 $ 43,734 42% Americas 61,577 54,979 6,598 12% APAC 45,966 54,008 (8,042) -15% Total revenue $ 254,570 $ 212,280 $ 42,290 20% 32 Table of Contents Total revenue increased $42.3 million or 20%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Product and license revenue increased by $31.2 million, or 20% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in product and license revenue was due to an increase in both hardware and software licenses revenue. Services and other revenue increased by $11.1 million, or 19% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was due to an increase in SaaS and maintenance revenue. Revenue generated in EMEA increased $43.7 million, or 42% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in revenue was driven by an increase in hardware, software and maintenance revenue. Revenue generated in the Americas increased $6.6 million, or 12% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in revenue was driven by higher subscription and maintenance revenue. Revenue generated in the Asia Pacific region decreased $8.0 million, or 15% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to a decrease in software license revenue. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Margin Twelve months ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ % Change (in thousands) Cost of goods sold Product and license $ 63,393 $ 50,706 $ 12,687 25% Services and other 18,569 14,107 4,462 32% Total cost of goods sold $ 81,962 $ 64,813 $ 17,149 26% Gross profit $ 172,608 $ 147,467 25,141 17% Gross margin Product and license 66% 67% Services and other 74% 76% Total gross margin 68% 69% The cost of product and license revenue increased $12.7 million, or 25% during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in cost of product and license revenue was primarily driven by higher token volume due to increased hardware sales. The cost of services and other revenue increased $4.5 million, or 32%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in cost of services and other revenue was primarily due to increased services and other revenues and increased SaaS hosting fees. Gross profit increased $25.1 million, or 17%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Gross margin was 68% for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 69% for the year ended December 31, 2018. The majority of our inventory purchases are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our sales are denominated in various currencies including the Euro. As the U.S. Dollar strengthened against the Euro for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, revenue from sales made in Euros decreased, as measured in US Dollars, without a corresponding change in the cost of goods sold. The impact of changes in currency rates are estimated to have decreased revenue by approximately $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Had currency rates in 2019 been equal to rates in 2018, the gross profit margin would have been approximately 3 percentage points higher for the year ended December 31, 2019. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Twelve months ended December 31, Change 2019 2018 $ % (in thousands) Operating costs Sales and marketing $ 61,503 $ 63,805 $ (2,302) -4% Research and development 42,463 32,197 10,266 32% General and administrative 43,897 41,589 2,308 6% Amortization / impairment of intangible assets 9,470 9,852 (382) -4% Total operating costs $ 157,333 $ 147,443 $ 9,890 7% Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $2.3 million, or 4% during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to decreased outside marketing spend. Average full-time sales and marketing employee headcount for year ended December 31, 2019 was 319, compared to 330 for year ended December 31, 2018. Average headcount in 2019 was 3% lower than in 2018. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $10.3 million, or 32% during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in expense was largely driven by an increase in headcount related to the Dealflo acquisition. Average full-time research and development employee headcount for year ended December 31, 2019 was 302, compared to 250 for year ended December 31, 2018. Average headcount in 2019 was 21% higher than in 2018. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $2.3 million, or 6% during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 was driven by higher professional services fees and the prior year reversal of the $0.9 million accrual resulting from a favorable outcome in our matter with the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Average full-time general and administrative employee headcount for year ended December 31, 2019 was 113, compared to 105 for the year ended December 31, 2018. Average headcount in 2019 was 8% higher than in 2018. Amortization / Impairment of Intangible Assets Amortization / impairment of intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $9.5 million, compared to $9.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, a decrease of $0.4 million or 4%. The decrease in expense was driven expense recognized during 2018 for assets that were considered impaired as a result of the rebranding. Interest Income, net Twelve months ended December 31, 2019 2018 % Change (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 747 $ 1,265 -41% 34 Table of Contents Interest income, net was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in interest income for 2019 compared to 2018 reflects a decrease in the average invested balance during the period. Other Income, Net Twelve months ended December 31, 2019 2018 % Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ (527) $ 2,264 -123% Other income (expense) , net primarily includes exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, and subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries. Other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $(0.5) million, compared to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The fluctuation is driven by foreign exchange expense incurred during the year ended December 31, 2019 and lower government subsidies. Provision (Benefit) for income taxes Twelve months ended December 31, 2019 2018 % Change (in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 6,706 $ (293) -2389% Income tax expense for 2019 was $6.7 million compared to an income tax benefit of $0.3 million in 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2019 there was a 43% tax expense, compared to an 8% tax benefit in 2018. Taxes increased in 2019 primarily due to the increase in pre-tax income, as well as an accrual related to uncertain tax positions. Taxes in 2018 included a benefit for an adjustment related to the 2017 deemed repatriation tax as part of Tax Reform. Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by losses generated in jurisdictions where we cannot recognize a tax benefit, earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. Loss Carryforwards Available At December 31, 2019, we have gross deferred tax assets of $24.9 million resulting from foreign and state NOL carryforwards of $16.6 million and other foreign deductible carryforwards of $8.3 million. At December 31, 2019, we have a valuation allowance of $17.3 million against deferred tax assets related to certain carryforwards. See Note 10 Income taxes for more information regarding carryforwards and valuation allowances. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2019, we had net cash balances (total cash and cash equivalents) of $84.3 million and short-term investments of $25.5 million. Short term investments consist of U.S. treasury bills and notes, corporate notes, and high quality commercial paper with maturities at acquisition of more than three months and less than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we entered into a new lease agreement that required a letter of credit in the amount of $0.8 million to secure the obligation. The restricted cash related to this letter of credit is recorded in other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. We had no outstanding debt at December 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018. 35 Table of Contents Our working capital at December 31, 2019 was $137.5 million, an increase of $17.9 million or 15% from $119.6 million at December 31, 2018. The increase in the combined balance of our cash and short-term investments is primarily driven by higher net income. As of December 31, 2019, we held $64.1 million of cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries outside of the United States. Of that amount, $63.5 million is not subject to repatriation restrictions, but may be subject to taxes upon repatriation. We believe that our financial resources are adequate to meet our operating needs over the next twelve months. Our cash flows are as follows: Twelve months ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 18,244 $ 1,226 17,627 Investing activities (9,893) 194 12,798 Financing activities (569) (970) (640) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (208) (1,556) (469) Operating Activities Cash generated by operating activities is primarily comprised of net income, as adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consist primarily of amortization and impairment of intangible assets, depreciation of property and equipment, and stock-based compensation. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases or decreases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs. We expect cash outflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in personnel cost as we grow our business. For the year ended December 31, 2019, $18.2 million of cash was provided by operating activities. Cash of $1.2 million and $17.6 million was provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Investing Activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, and activity in connection with acquisitions. We expect to continue to purchase property and equipment to support the continued growth of our business as well to continue to invest in our infrastructure and activity in connection with acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2019 cash of $9.9 million was used in investing activities. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash of $0.2 million and $12.8 million, respectively, was provided by investing activities. Financing Activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to tax payments for restricted stock issuances. Cash of $0.6 million, $1.0 million and $0.6 million was used in financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 36 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019: Payments due by period 2-3 4-5 More than Total 1 year years years 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 16,547 $ 3,245 $ 5,206 $ 3,092 $ 5,004 Purchase obligations 28,547 21,915 6,620 12 Taxes payable 10,710 3,752 2,106 4,606 246 $ 55,804 $ 28,912 $ 13,932 $ 7,710 $ 5,250 The operating lease obligations above do not include common area maintenance (CAM) charges or real estate taxes under our operating leases, for which the Company is also obligated. These charges are generally not fixed and can fluctuate from year to year. Taxes payable primarily represents deemed repatriation tax from 2017. For further information, refer to Note 10 Income Taxes. The Company had $2.9 million, $0.4 million and $0.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2019, December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which have been set aside in a reserve in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740 Income Taxes. We have included $2.7 million in the table above. The remaining amounts are not included in the above table as the timing of payment of such obligations, if any, is not determinable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to bad debts, net realizable value of inventory and intangible assets. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies affect significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Under ASC 605 For the Year ended December 31, 2017 Prior to January 1, 2018 we recognized revenue in accordance with ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition , ASC 985-605-25, Revenue Recognition Multiple Element Arrangements and Staff Accounting Bulletin 104. Product and License Revenue includes hardware products and software licenses. Services and Other includes software as a service (SaaS), maintenance and support, and professional services. Revenue is recognized when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the revenue is probable. In multiple-element arrangements, some of our products are accounted for under the software provisions of ASC 985-605 and others under the provisions that relate to the sale of non-software products. In our typical multiple-element arrangement, the primary deliverables include: 1. a client component (i.e., an item that is used by the person being authenticated in the form of either a new standalone hardware device or software that is downloaded onto a device the customer already owns); 2. host system software that is installed on the customers systems (i.e., software on the host system that verifies the identity of the person being authenticated) or licenses for additional users on the host system software if the host system software had been installed previously; and 3. post contract support (PCS) in the form of maintenance on the host system software or support. Our multiple-element arrangements may also include other items that are usually delivered prior to the recognition of any revenue are incidental to the overall transaction such as initialization of the hardware device, customization of the hardware device itself or the packaging in which it is delivered, deployment services where we deliver the device to our customers end-use customer or employee and, in some limited cases, professional services to assist with the initial implementation of a new customer. In multiple-element arrangements that include a hardware client device, we allocate the selling price among all elements, delivered and undelivered, based on estimated selling price of all of the elements. In multiple-element arrangements that include a software client device, we continue to account for each element under the current standards of ASC 985-605 related to software. When software for the client device and host software are delivered elements, we use the Residual Method for determining the amount of revenue to recognize for token and software licenses if we have vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) for all of the undelivered elements. Any discount provided to the customer is applied fully to the delivered elements in such an arrangement. VSOE for undelivered elements is established using the bell curve method. Under this method, we conclude VSOE exists when a substantial majority of PCS renewals are within a narrow range of pricing. The estimated selling price of PCS items is based on an established percentage of the user license fee attributable to the specific software. In sales arrangements where VSOE of fair value has not been established, revenue for all elements is deferred and amortized over the life of the arrangement. 38 Table of Contents For transactions other than multiple-element arrangements, we recognize revenue as follows: 1. Product and License Revenue : Revenue from the sale of computer security hardware or the license of software is recorded upon shipment, or upon delivery based on the underlying contract terms. No significant obligations or contingencies exist with regard to delivery, customer acceptance or rights of return at the time revenue is recognized. 2. SaaS : We generate SaaS revenues from our cloud services offerings. SaaS revenues include fees from customers for access to the OneSpan Sign (formerly eSignLive) suite of solutions. Our standard customer arrangements generally do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of the software supporting the cloud-based application service at any time. As such, these arrangements are considered service contracts and revenue is recognized ratably over the service period of the contract. 3. Maintenance and Support Agreements : Maintenance and support agreements generally call for us to provide software updates and technical support, respectively, to customers. Revenue on maintenance and technical support is deferred and recognized ratably over the term of the applicable maintenance and support agreement. 4. Professional Services : We provide professional services to our customers. Revenue from such services is recognized during the period in which the services are performed. We recognize revenue from sales to distributors and resellers on the same basis as sales made directly to customers. We recognize revenue when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the revenue is probable. For large-volume transactions, we may negotiate a specific price that is based on the number of users of the software license or quantities of hardware supplied. The per unit prices for large-volume transactions are generally lower than transactions for smaller quantities and the price differences are commonly referred to as volume-purchase discounts. All revenue is reported on a net basis, excluding any sales taxes or value added taxes. Under ASC 606 For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 On January 1, 2018, we adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under FASB ASC Topic 605 Revenue Recognition and FASB ASC Topic 985-605 Software-Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). We recorded a net increase to opening Accumulated Income of $11.9 million, net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to the accounting impacts of our customer contracts that include a term license to our software, as well as the impact of accounting for costs incurred to obtain our contracts. The net impact to revenue as a result of applying Topic 606 was an increase of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 4 - Revenue for further details. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: 39 Table of Contents Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer; Identification of the performance obligations in the contract; Determination of the transaction price; Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services, which excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer, are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Nature of Goods and Services We derive our revenues primarily from Product and License Revenue, which includes hardware products and software licenses, and Services and Other, which is inclusive of software-as-a-service (which we refer to as subscription, or SaaS), maintenance and support, and professional services. Product Revenue: Revenue from the sale of security hardware is recorded upon shipment, which is the point at which control of the goods are transferred and the completion of the performance obligations, unless there are specific terms that would suggest control is transferred at a later date (e.g. delivery). No significant obligations or contingencies typically exist with regard to delivery, customer acceptance or rights of return at the time revenue is recognized. Customer payments normally correspond with delivery. License Revenue: Revenue from the sale of software licensing is recorded upon the latter of when the customer receives the ability to access the software or when they are legally allowed to use the software. No significant obligations or contingencies exist with regard to delivery, customer acceptance or rights of return at the time revenue is recognized. Contracts with customers for distinct licenses of intellectual property include perpetual licenses, which grant the customer unlimited access to the software, and term licenses which limit the customers access to the software to a specific time period. We offer term licenses ranging from one to five years in length. Customer payments normally correspond with delivery for perpetual licenses. For term licenses, payments are either on installment or in advance. In limited circumstances, we integrate third party software solutions into our software products. We have determined that, consistent with our conclusion under prior revenue recognition rules, generally we act as the principal with respect to the satisfaction of the related performance obligation and record the corresponding revenue on a gross basis from these transactions. For transactions in which we do not act as the principal, we would recognize revenue on a net basis. The fees paid to the third parties are recognized as a component of cost of goods sold when the revenue is recognized. Subscription Revenue: We generate subscription revenues from our cloud services offerings. Subscription revenues mostly include fees from customers for access to the OneSpan Sign, TID, and Dealflo solutions. Our standard customer arrangements do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of the software supporting the cloud-based application service at any time. As such, these arrangements are considered service contracts and revenue is recognized ratably over the service period of the contract. Customer payments are normally in advance for annual service. Maintenance, Support and Other: Maintenance and support agreements generally call for us to provide software updates and technical support, respectively, to customers. Revenue on maintenance and technical support is deferred and recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance and support agreement. Customer payments are normally in advance for annual service. Professional Services: We provide professional services to our customers. Revenue from such services is recognized during the period in which the services are performed. Payments vary, but normally occur on a time and materials basis. 40 Table of Contents Significant Judgments We enter into contracts to deliver a combination of hardware devices, software licenses, subscriptions, maintenance and support and, in some situations, professional services. The Company evaluates the nature of the goods or services promised in these arrangements to identify the distinct performance obligations. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a hardware client device and licenses to host software are sold in a contract, they are treated as a single performance obligation because the software license is deemed to be a component of the hardware that is integral to the functionality of the hardware that is used by our customers for identity authentication. When a software client device is sold in a contract host software, the licenses are considered a single performance obligation to deliver the authentication solution to the customer. In either of these types of arrangements, maintenance and support and professional services are typically distinct separate performance obligations from the hardware or software solutions. Our contracts to deliver subscription services typically do not include multiple performance obligations; however, in certain limited cases customers may purchase professional services that are distinct performance obligations. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations based on their estimated relative standalone selling price. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (SSP) of each distinct performance obligation. We determine SSP for maintenance and support and professional services based on observable inputs; specifically, the range of prices charged to customers to renew annual maintenance and support contracts and the range of hourly rates we charge our customers in standalone professional services contracts. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, and when we sell at a highly variable price range, such as for transactions involving software licenses or subscriptions, we determine the SSP for those performance obligations using the residual method. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make payments for goods and services. The allowance is based on a specific review of all significant past-due accounts. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventories We write down inventory where it appears that the carrying cost of the inventory may not be recovered through subsequent sale of the inventory. We analyze the quantity of inventory on hand, the quantity sold in the past year, the anticipated sales volume in the form of sales to new customers as well as sales to previous customers, the expected sales price and the cost of making the sale when evaluating the valuation of our inventory. If the sales volume or sales price of a specific model declines significantly, additional write-downs may be required. Impairment of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets Definite-lived intangible assets include proprietary technology, customer relationships, and other intangible assets. Intangible assets other than patents with definite lives are amortized over the useful life, generally three to seven years for proprietary technology and five to twelve years for customer relationships. Patents are amortized over the life of the patent, generally 20 years in the U.S. Intangible assets arising from business combinations, such as acquired technology, customer relationships, and other intangible assets, are originally recorded at fair value. As a result of the Company rebranding, the value of certain intangible assets were written down during the second quarter of 2018, and impairment charges of $0.5 million were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2018. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, definite-lived intangible assets being amortized and capitalized software costs, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. An impairment loss shall be recognized if the 41 Table of Contents carrying amount of a long-lived asset group exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If it is determined that an impairment loss has occurred, the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group exceeds its fair value. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported at the lower of carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired in a business combination. We assess the impairment of goodwill each November or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Companys impairment assessment begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The qualitative assessment includes comparing the overall financial performance of the reporting units against the planned results used in the last quantitative goodwill impairment test. Additionally, each reporting units fair value is assessed in light of certain events and circumstances, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, and other relevant entity- and reporting unit specific events. The selection and assessment of qualitative factors used to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value involves significant judgments and estimates. If it is determined under the qualitative assessment that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then a two-step quantitative impairment test is performed. Under the first step, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is compared with its carrying value (including goodwill). If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, step two does not need to be performed. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an indication of goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit and the enterprise must perform step two of the impairment test (measurement). Under step two, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation in acquisition accounting. The residual amount after this allocation is the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill. Fair value of the reporting unit under the two-step assessment is determined using a combination of both income and market-based variation approaches. The inputs and assumptions to valuation methods used to estimate the fair value of reporting units involves significant judgments. We operate in one reporting unit and had no goodwill impairment recorded for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. Income Taxes As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. The provision for income taxes includes the amounts payable or refundable for the current year, the effect of deferred taxes and impacts from uncertain tax positions. Our provision for income taxes is significantly affected by shifts in the geographic mix of our pre-tax earnings across tax jurisdictions, changes in tax laws and regulations, and tax planning opportunities available in each tax jurisdiction. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that will apply to taxable income in the years in which those differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. We recognize the effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities and in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We recognize tax benefits for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our income tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards. Assumptions, judgments, and the use of estimates are 42 Table of Contents required in determining whether the more likely than not standard has been meet when developing the provision for income taxes. We monitor for changes in tax laws and reflect the impacts of tax law changes in the period of enactment. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 , Leases . Since that date, the FASB has issued additional ASUs clarifying certain aspects of ASU 2016-02. The new guidance supersedes the lease guidance under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. The guidance requires a lessee to recognize on the Balance Sheet a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for both finance and operating leases. Subsequent guidance issued after February 2016 did not change the core principle of ASU 2016-02. The Company adopted ASC Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method, which did not require the Company to adjust comparative periods. See the Accounting for Leases section of this note for additional information. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13 , Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13). The new guidance provides financial statement users with improved information about the expected credit losses on trade receivables and other financial instruments held by a reporting entity at each reporting date. The amendments in this update replace the incurred loss methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to calculate credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company expects to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis and is still evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . This standard eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge (i.e. Step 2 of the current guidance), instead measuring the impairment charge as the excess of the reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value (i.e. Step 1 of the current guidance). The guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2020, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted for impairment testing dates after January 1, 2017. We are currently evaluating the effect, if any, that the ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments Overall, which revises the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities. ASU 2016-01 requires that equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, be measured at fair value and changes in fair value are recognized in net income. ASU 2016-01 also provides a new measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value (cost method investments). These investments are measured at cost, less any impairment, adjusted for observable price changes. Effective January 1, 2018, we elected to record our equity investment that does not have a readily determinable fair value using the alternative measurement method. Accordingly upon adoption, we recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase opening accumulated income at January 1, 2018 by $0.5 million, net of tax, as required for our equity investments with no readily determinable fair value to reflect the investment at approximate fair value. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee share-based payment accounting , which is intended to reduce the cost and complexity of accounting for, and improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees for goods and services. The ASU is effective for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018. The guidance should be applied prospectively and early adoption is permitted. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2019 on a prospective basis. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 43 Table of Contents In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement (ASU 2018-13) which amends ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures. The ASU is effective for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for removed or modified disclosures, and delayed adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are currently evaluating the effect that the ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, CompensationRetirement BenefitsDefined Benefit PlansGeneral (Topic 715-20): Disclosure FrameworkChanges to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans (ASU 2018-14) , which modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. ASU 2018-14 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that the ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement , which helps entities evaluate the accounting for fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement (CCA) by providing guidance for determining when an arrangement includes a software license and when an arrangement is solely a hosted CCA service. Under ASU 2018-15, customers will apply the same criteria for capitalizing implementation costs as they would for an arrangement that has a software license. The new guidance also prescribes the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow classification of the capitalized implementation costs and related amortization expense, and requires additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The new standard is effective for us on January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not been issued. Entities can choose to adopt the new guidance prospectively to eligible costs incurred on or after the date this guidance is first applied or retrospectively. We expect to implement the guidance prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the effect that the ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes , to simplify the accounting for income taxes. The ASUs amendments are based on changes that were suggested by stakeholders as part of the FASBs effort to reduce the complexity of accounting standards while maintaining or enhancing the helpfulness of information provided to financial statement users. The new standard is effective for us on January 1, 2021. We are currently evaluating the effect that the ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the FASB or other standard setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise discussed, our management believes that the issued standards that are not yet effective will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.