Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (in thousands, except headcount, ratios, time periods and percentages) Unless otherwise noted, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to OneSpan, Company, we, our, and us refer to OneSpan Inc. and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable U.S. securities laws, including statements regarding the potential benefits, performance and functionality of our products and solutions, including future offerings; our expectations, beliefs, plans, operations and strategies relating to our business and the future of our business; our strategic plans regarding our portfolio, including acquisitions and dispositions; and our expectations regarding our financial performance in the future. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "seek", "believe", "plan", "estimate", "anticipate", expect", "intend", "continue", "outlook", "may", "will", "should", "could", or "might", and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not fully materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could materially affect our business and financial results include, but are not limited to: market acceptance of our products and solutions and competitors offerings; the potential effects of technological changes; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken to contain it; our ability to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions ; the execution of our transformative strategy on a global scale; the increasing frequency and sophistication of hacking attacks; claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others; changes in customer requirements; price competitive bidding; changing laws, government regulations or policies; pressures on price levels; investments in new products or businesses that may not achieve expected returns; disruption in global transportation and supply chains; reliance on third parties for certain products and data center services, impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets causing a significant charge to earnings; actions of activist stockholders; and exposure to increased economic and operational uncertainties from operating a global business, as well as those factors described in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and other important information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at investors.onespan.com . We do not have any intent, and disclaim any obligation, to update the forward-looking information to reflect events that occur, circumstances that exist or changes in our expectations after the date of this Form 10-Q, except as required by law. Outlook and Financial Results We continue to actively address the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact globally. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we experienced lengthened sales cycles and supply chain constraints in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. In prior periods, we also experienced reduced demand for certain of our hardware products and software solutions. While we hope that the negative consequences on our business associated with the COVID-19 pandemic will subside, we cannot predict the impact with certainty. In the current and future periods, we may experience weaker customer demand, requests for discounts or extended payment terms, customer bankruptcies, supply chain disruption, employee staffing constraints and difficulties, government restrictions or other factors that could negatively impact the Company and its business, operations and financial results. We believe that we will emerge from these events well positioned for long-term growth, though we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of the pandemic or its ultimate impact on the global economy and our business results. See Part 1 Item 1A - Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 for additional information regarding the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Company. 19 Table of Contents Restructuring Plan In December 2021, the Board approved a restructuring plan (Plan) designed to advance the Companys model, streamline its business, and enhance its capital resources. The first phase began and was substantially completed during the three months ended March 31, 2022. As part of the first phase of the Plan, we reduced headcount by eliminating positions in certain areas of the Company. The Company incurred severance and related benefits costs, which are recorded in the sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expense financial statement line items in the condensed consolidated income statement for the three months ended March 31, 2022. See Note 15 Restructuring Plan for additional detail. The Company expects to finalize additional details regarding future phases of the multi-year strategic plan during the three months ended June 30, 2022. Overview We design, develop and market digital solutions for identity, security, and business productivity that protect and facilitate electronic transactions via mobile and connected devices. We are a global leader in providing anti-fraud and digital transaction management solutions to financial institutions and other businesses. Our solutions secure access to online accounts, data, assets, and applications for global enterprises; provide tools for application developers to easily integrate security functions into their web-based and mobile applications; and facilitate end-to-end financial agreement automation including digital identity verification, customer due diligence, electronic signature, secure storage and document management. Our core technologies, multi-factor authentication, identity verification and transaction signing, strengthen the process of preventing hacking attacks against online and mobile transactions to allow companies to transact business safely with remote customers. We offer cloud based and on premises solutions using both open standards and proprietary technologies. Some of our proprietary technologies are patented. Our products and services are used for authentication, fraud mitigation, e-signing transactions and documents, and identity management in Business-to-Business (B2B), Business-to-Employee (B2E) and Business-to-Consumer (B2C) environments. Our target market is business processes using electronic interface, particularly the Internet, where there is risk of unauthorized access. Our products can increase security associated with accessing business processes, reduce losses from unauthorized access and reduce the cost of the process by automating activities previously performed manually. Our Business Model We offer our products through a product sales and licensing model or through our services platform, which includes our cloud-based service offering. Our solutions are sold worldwide through our direct sales force, as well as through distributors, resellers, systems integrators, and original equipment manufacturers. Our sales force is able to offer customers a choice of an on-site implementation using our traditional on-premises model or a cloud implementation for some solutions using our services platform. Industry Growth We believe the markets for authentication, fraud mitigation, agreement automation, and electronic signature solutions will continue to grow, albeit at different rates, driven by new government regulations, growing awareness of the impact of cyber-crime, increasing focus on the digital experience for mobile and online users, remote working and workflow automation, and the growth in electronic commerce. The issues driving growth are global; however, the rate of adoption in each country is a function of local culture, competitive position, economic conditions, and the use of technology may vary significantly. 20 Table of Contents Economic Conditions Our revenue may vary significantly with changes in the economic conditions in the countries in which we currently sell products. With our current concentration of revenue in Europe and specifically in the banking and finance vertical market, significant changes in the economic outlook for the European banking market may have a significant effect on our revenue. Cybersecurity Risks Our use of technology is increasing and is critical in three primary areas of our business: 1. Software and information systems that we use to help us run our business more efficiently and cost effectively; 2. The products we have traditionally sold and continue to sell to our customers for integration into their software applications contain technology that incorporates the use of secret numbers and encryption technology; and 3. New products and services that we introduced to the market are focused on processing information through our servers or in the cloud. We believe that the risks and consequences of potential incidents in each of the above areas are different. In the case of the information systems we use to help us run our business, we believe that an incident could disrupt our ability to take orders or deliver product to our customers, but such a delay in these activities would not have a material impact on our overall results. To minimize this risk, we actively use various forms of security and monitor the use of our systems regularly to detect potential incidents as soon as possible. In the case of products that we have traditionally sold, we believe that the risk of a potential cyber incident is minimal. We offer our customers the ability to either create the secret numbers themselves or have us create the numbers on their behalf. When asked to create the numbers, we do so in a secure environment with limited physical access and store the numbers on a system that is not connected to any other network, including other OneSpan networks, and similarly, is not connected to the Internet. In the case of our cloud-based solutions, which involve the processing of customer information, we believe a cyber incident could have a material impact on our business. While our revenue from cloud-based solutions comprises a minority of our revenue today, we believe that these solutions will provide substantial future growth. A cyber incident involving these solutions in the future could substantially impair our ability to grow the business and we could suffer significant monetary and other losses and significant reputational harm. To minimize the risk, we review our product security and procedures on a regular basis. Our reviews include the processes and software code we are currently using as well as the hosting platforms and procedures that we employ. We mitigate the risk of cyber incidents through a series of reviews, tests, tools and training. Certain insurance coverages may apply to certain cyber incidents. Overall, we expect the cost of securing our networks will increase in future periods, whether through increased staff, systems or insurance coverage. While we did not experience any cyber incidents in the first three months of 2022 that had a significant impact on our business, it is possible that we could experience an incident in 2022 or future years, which could result in unanticipated costs. Currency Fluctuation During the three months ended March 31, 2022, approximately 88% of our revenue was generated outside of the United States. While the majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States, a significant amount of 21 Table of Contents our revenue earned during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was denominated in U.S. Dollars. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we estimate that approximately 57% of our revenue was denominated in U.S. Dollars. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2022, approximately 68% of our operating expenses were incurred outside of the United States. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates, especially the Euro exchange rate and the Canadian Dollar exchange rate, can have a significant impact on revenue and expenses. In general, to minimize the net impact of currency fluctuations on operating income, we attempt to denominate an amount of billings in a currency such that it would provide a hedge against the operating expenses incurred in that currency. We expect that changes in currency rates may also impact our future results if we are unable to match amounts of revenue with our operating expenses in the same currency. If the amount of our revenue in Europe denominated in Euros continues as it is now or declines, we may not be able to balance fully the exposures of currency exchange rates on revenue and operating expenses. The financial position and the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Switzerland, Singapore and Canada, are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. Dollars using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates generated other comprehensive loss of $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates generated other comprehensive loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. These amounts are included as a separate component of stockholders equity. The functional currency for our subsidiaries in Switzerland, Singapore and Canada is the U.S. Dollar. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in other income (expense), net. Foreign exchange transaction losses aggregated $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Foreign exchange transaction losses aggregated $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Components of Operating Results Revenue We generate revenue from the sale of our hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, maintenance and support, and professional services. We believe comparison of revenues between periods is heavily influenced by the timing of orders and shipments reflecting the transactional nature of significant parts of our business. Product and license revenue . Product and license revenue includes hardware products and software licenses, which can be provided on a perpetual or term basis. Service and other revenue . Service and other revenue includes subscription solutions (which is our definition of software-as-a-service solutions), maintenance and support, and professional services. Cost of Goods Sold Our total cost of goods sold consists of cost of product and license revenue and cost of service and other revenue. We expect our cost of goods sold to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Cost of product and license revenue . Cost of product and license revenue primarily consists of direct product and license costs. Cost of service and other revenue . Cost of service and other revenue primarily consists of costs related to subscription solutions, including personnel and equipment costs, and personnel costs of employees providing professional services and maintenance and support. 22 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, or gross margin, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including our average selling price, manufacturing costs, the mix of products sold, and the mix of revenue among products, subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margins to fluctuate over time depending on these factors. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are generally based on anticipated revenue levels and fixed over short periods of time. As a result, small variations in revenue may cause significant variations in the period-to-period comparisons of operating income or operating income as a percentage of revenue. Generally, the most significant factor driving our operating expenses is headcount. Direct compensation and benefit plan expenses generally represent between 55% and 65% of our operating expenses, respectively. In addition, a number of other expense categories are directly related to headcount. We attempt to manage our headcount within the context of the economic environments in which we operate and the investments we believe we need to make for our infrastructure to support future growth and for our products to remain competitive. Historically, operating expenses have been impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates. We estimate the change in currency rates in the first three months of 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 resulted in a decrease in operating expenses of approximately $1.1 million. The comparison of operating expenses can also be impacted significantly by costs related to our stock-based and long-term incentive plans. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included $1.4 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively of expenses related to stock-based and long-term incentive plan costs compared to $1.3 million and $0.2 million of stock-based and long-term incentive plan cost for the three months ended March 31, 2021, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was favorably impacted by the forfeiture of unvested awards by certain severed sales management and executive management during the periods, offset by new grants. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, commissions and bonuses, trade shows, marketing programs and other marketing activities, travel, outside consulting costs, and long-term incentive compensation. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in sales resources in key focus areas, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Research and development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and long-term incentive compensation. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our future solutions, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, legal and other professional fees, and long term incentive compensation. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue. Amortization of intangible assets . Acquired intangible assets are amortized over their respective amortization periods, and are periodically evaluated for impairment. Interest Income, Net Interest income, net consists of income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. Our cash equivalents and short term investments are invested in short-term instruments at current market rates. 23 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries and other miscellaneous non-operational expenses. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate reflects our global structure related to the ownership of our intellectual property (IP). All our IP in our traditional authentication business is owned by two subsidiaries, one in the U.S. and one in Switzerland. These two subsidiaries have entered into agreements with most of the other OneSpan entities under which those other entities provide services to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries on either a percentage of revenue or on a cost plus basis or both. Under this structure, the earnings of our service provider subsidiaries are relatively constant. These service provider companies tend to be in jurisdictions with higher effective tax rates. Fluctuations in earnings tend to flow to the U.S. company and Swiss company. In 2022, earnings flowing to the U.S. company are expected to be taxed at a rate of 21% to 25%, while earnings flowing to the Swiss company are expected to be taxed at a rate ranging from 11% to 15%, plus Swiss federal withholding tax of an additional 5%. A Canadian and UK subsidiary currently sell to and service global customers directly. In addition, many of our OneSpan entities operate as distributors for all of our OneSpan products. As the majority of our revenues are generated outside of the U.S., our consolidated effective tax rate is strongly influenced by the effective tax rate of our foreign operations. Changes in the effective rate related to foreign operations reflect changes in the geographic mix of earnings and the tax rates in each of the countries in which it is earned. The statutory tax rate for the primary foreign tax jurisdictions ranges from 11% to 35%. The geographic mix of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries primarily depends on the level of pretax income of our service provider subsidiaries and the benefit realized in Switzerland through the sales of product. The level of pretax income in our service provider subsidiaries is expected to vary based on: 1. the staff, programs and services offered on a yearly basis by the various subsidiaries as determined by management, or 2. the changes in exchange rates related to the currencies in the service provider subsidiaries, or 3. the amount of revenues that the service provider subsidiaries generate. For items 1 and 2 above, there is a direct impact in the opposite direction on earnings of the U.S. and Swiss entities. Any change from item 3 is generally expected to result in a larger change in income in the U.S. and Swiss entities in the direction of the change (increased revenues expected to result in increased margins/pretax profits and conversely decreased revenues expected to result in decreased margins/pretax profits). In addition to the provision of services, the intercompany agreements transfer the majority of the business risk to our U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries. As a result, the contracting subsidiaries pretax income is reasonably assured while the pretax income of the U.S. and Swiss subsidiaries varies directly with our overall success in the market. In November 2015, we acquired OneSpan Canada Inc. (formerly eSignLive), a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating losses and other tax carryforwards. The tax benefit of the carryforwards has been fully reserved as realization has not been deemed more likely than not. In May 2018, we acquired Dealflo Limited (Dealflo), a foreign company with substantial IP and net operating losses. The tax benefit of existing loss carryforwards at the time of acquisition was not recorded as the Company determined they were not more likely than not to be realized. 24 Table of Contents Management assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a regular basis, weighing all positive and negative evidence to determine whether a deferred tax asset will be fully or partially realized. In evaluating the realizability of deferred tax assets, significant pieces of negative evidence such as 3-year cumulative losses are considered. Results of Operations Revenue Revenue by Product: We generate revenue from the sale of our hardware products, software licenses, subscriptions, professional services, and maintenance and support. Product and license revenue includes hardware products and software licenses. Service and other revenue includes subscription solutions (which is our definition of software-as-a-service solutions), maintenance and support, and professional services. Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Hardware products $ 15,352 $ 17,668 Software licenses 14,133 10,777 Subscription 10,117 8,405 Professional services 900 1,402 Maintenance, support, and other 11,945 12,523 Total Revenue $ 52,447 $ 50,775 Total revenue increased $1.7 million or 3%, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven primarily by a $6.3 million or 22% increase in recurring revenue, partially offset by a $2.3 million or 13% decrease in hardware revenue and a $1.8 million or 65% decrease in perpetual software license revenue. Recurring revenue is the portion of our revenue subject to future renewal and is comprised of subscription, term-based software licenses, and maintenance, support and other revenue. Product and license revenue increased by $1.0 million or 4% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven by higher software license sales of $3.4 million, partially offset by lower hardware revenue of $2.3 million or 13%. Lower hardware revenue was partially driven by shipping delays related to disruptions in global transportation and supply chains. Services and other revenue increased by $0.6 million, or 3% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, which was primarily driven by a $1.7 million or 20% increase in subscription revenue, partially offset by reductions in professional services and maintenance, support, and other revenue of $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. We believe comparison of revenues between periods is heavily influenced by the timing of orders and shipments reflecting the transactional nature of significant parts of our business. As a result of the volatility in our business, we believe that the overall strength of our business is best evaluated over a longer term where the impact of transactions in any given period is not as significant as in a quarter-over-quarter comparison. Revenue by Geographic Regions: We classify our sales by customer location in three geographic regions: 1) EMEA, which includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; 2) the Americas, which includes sales in North, Central, and 25 Table of Contents South America; and 3) Asia Pacific (APAC), which also includes Australia, New Zealand, and India. The breakdown of revenue in each of our major geographic areas was as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue EMEA $ 24,876 $ 26,989 ($ 2,113) (8)% Americas 17,249 16,528 721 4% APAC 10,322 7,258 3,064 42% Total revenue $ 52,447 $ 50,775 $ 1,672 3% % of Total Revenue EMEA 47% 53% Americas 33% 33% APAC 20% 14% Revenue generated in EMEA during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2.1 million, or 8% lower than the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven primarily by lower hardware sales. Revenue generated in the Americas during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $0.7 million, or 4% higher than the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven primarily by increases in software license revenue and subscription revenue Revenue generated in the Asia Pacific region during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $3.1 million, or 42% higher than the three months ended March 31, 2021, driven by higher revenue from software licenses and subscription. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ % Change (in thousands) Cost of goods sold Product and license $ 9,079 $ 10,752 ($ 1,673) (16)% Services and other 6,690 5,781 909 16% Total cost of goods sold $ 15,769 $ 16,533 ($ 764) (5)% Gross profit $ 36,678 $ 34,242 2,436 7% Gross margin Product and license 69% 62% Services and other 71% 74% Total gross margin 70% 67% The cost of product and license revenue decreased $1.7 million or 16% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to a 13% decrease in hardware revenue during the period. The cost of services and other revenue increased by $0.9 million, or 16% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in cost of services and other revenue is reflective of higher subscription revenue, which has increased cloud-based infrastructure costs. 26 Table of Contents Gross profit increased $2.4 million, or 7% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Gross profit margin was 70% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to 67% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in profit margins for the three months ended March 31, 2022 reflects a shift in product mix to increased term-based software and subscription revenue and lower hardware revenue. The majority of our inventory purchases are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our sales are denominated in various currencies including the Euro. The impact of changes in currency rates are estimated to have decreased revenue by approximately $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Had currency rates in 2021 been equal to rates in 2021, the gross profit margin would have been approximately 3 percentage point higher for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ % Change (in thousands) Operating costs Sales and marketing $ 15,895 $ 17,168 ($ 1,273) (7)% Research and development 13,749 12,244 1,505 12% General and administrative 14,895 12,551 2,344 19% Amortization of intangible assets 1,382 1,573 (191) (12)% Total operating costs $ 45,921 $ 43,536 $ 2,385 5% Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were $15.9 million, a decrease of $1.3 million or 7%, from the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 was driven by lower headcount in conjunction with our restructuring plan, partially offset by severance and related benefits expense recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Average full-time sales, marketing, support, and operating employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 361, compared to 385 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Average headcount was 6% lower for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period in 2021. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, were $13.8 million, an increase of $1.5 million, or 12%, from the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by $1.7 million of severance and related expenses incurred as part of our restructuring plan. Average full-time research and development employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 367, compared to 349 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Average headcount was approximately 5% higher for the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022, were $14.9 million, an increase of $2.3 million or 19%, from the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was driven by higher consulting fees related to our strategic action plan and higher bad debt expense, partially offset by the forfeiture of unvested stock based compensation 27 Table of Contents and long-term incentive plan benefits by employees who left the company, as well as outside service costs for our proxy contest incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Average full-time general and administrative employee headcount for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 138, compared to 134 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Average headcount was approximately 3% higher for the three months ended March 31, 2022, when compared to the same period in 2021. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $1.4 million, compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Amortization expense decreased 12%, which was driven by certain assets acquired in the Silanis acquisition becoming fully amortized. Interest income (expense), net Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Interest income (expense), net ($ 17) $ 4 ($ 21) NM Interest income (expense), net was less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to less than $0.1 million for the same period in 2021. The fluctuation is reflective of changing interest rates in our cash accounts held in various countries across the globe. Other income, net Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 15,647 ($ 362) $ 16,009 NM Other income, net primarily includes subsidies received from foreign governments in support of our research and development in those countries, exchange gains (losses) on transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries functional currencies, and other miscellaneous non-operational, non-recurring expenses. Other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $15.6 million, compared to $(0.4) million for the comparable period of 2021. The fluctuation was primarily driven by $14.8 million gain on sale of our investment in Promon AS. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ % Change (in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 1,173 ($ 501) $ 1,674 NM The Company recorded income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 of $1.2 million, compared to income tax benefit of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The expense recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to the gain recognized on the sale of our investment in Promon. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2022, we had cash balances (total cash and cash equivalents) of $83.6 million and short-term investments of $36.3 million. Short term investments consist of U.S. treasury notes and bills, corporate notes and bonds, and high quality commercial paper with maturities at acquisition of more than three months and less than twelve months. At December 31, 2021, we had cash balances of $63.4 million and short-term investments of $35.1 million. We are in lease agreements that require letters of credit to secure the obligations. The restricted cash related to these letters of credit is recorded in other non-current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet in the amounts of $0.8 million and $0.8 million at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Our working capital at March 31, 2022 was $108.3 million compared to $98.0 million at December 31, 2021. As of March 31, 2022, we held $70.3 million of cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries outside of the United States. Of that amount, $69.6 million is not subject to repatriation restrictions, but may be subject to taxes upon repatriation. We believe that our financial resources are adequate to meet our operating needs over the next twelve months. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,660 $ 3,583 Investing activities 17,283 (18,440) Financing activities (635) (2,139) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (45) (558) Operating Activities Cash generated by operating activities is primarily comprised of net income, as adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments consist primarily of amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of property and equipment, deferred tax benefit, and stock-based compensation. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases or decreases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs. We expect cash outflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in personnel cost as we grow our business. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $3.7 million, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $3.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Investing Activities The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to timing of purchases, maturities and sales of investments, purchases of property and equipment, and activity in connection with acquisitions. We expect to continue to purchase property and equipment to support the continued growth of our business as well to continue to invest in our infrastructure and activity in connection with acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by investing activities was $17.3 million, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $18.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily driven by the $18.9 million sale of our investment in Promon AS. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 29 Table of Contents 2021 was driven by the timing of the purchases and maturities of our short term investments, as well as property and equipment purchases. Financing Activities The changes in cash flows from financing activities is primarily related to the purchases of common stock under our share repurchase program and tax payments for restricted stock issuances. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $0.6 million, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease is driven by lower tax payments for restricted stock issuances. Critical Accounting Policy Our accounting policies are fully described in Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 and Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Interim Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022. We believe our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, credit losses, and accounting for income taxes.