Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and OneStream, Inc.s consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our rapid growth may not be sustainable or indicative of our future growth. Our rapid growth may not be sustainable or indicative of our future growth. Even though the number of customers that use our platform has grown rapidly in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new customers, retain existing customers or increase adoption of our platform. You should not rely on our historical revenue growth as an indication of our future performance. Our ability to attract new customers, retain revenue from existing customers or increase adoption of our platform by both new and existing customers is impacted by a number of factors, including: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally; our ability to increase awareness of our brand and successfully compete with other companies; competitive factors, including the introduction of competing products, discount pricing and other strategies that may be implemented by our competitors; our ability to respond to the changing needs of our potential and existing customers, timely enhance our platform and core solutions, and develop and offer new applications on the OneStream Solution Exchange; our ability to maintain high-quality customer support; our ability to attract and retain partners; our ability to expand into new markets and industries; our ability to expand internationally; actual or perceived privacy, data protection or security breaches or incidents; the frequency and severity of any system outages, technological changes or similar issues; our ability to successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business; and various external factors beyond our control, including adverse macroeconomic conditions and other events that negatively impact customer demand or lengthen our sales cycles. 20 We might have difficulty attracting potential customers that have already invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy products, applications and modules into their businesses, as such organizations might be reluctant or unwilling to invest in our platform. As we continue to invest in our sales and marketing initiatives, there can be no assurance that our investments and efforts will result in new customers, increased sales to existing customers or additional revenue. If we fail to attract new customers, or maintain and expand existing customer relationships, our revenue will grow more slowly than expected or may not grow at all and our business will be harmed. In addition, our rapid growth may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. As we have a limited history of operations at our current scale, our ability to forecast our future operating results and plan for and model future growth is more limited than that of companies with longer operating histories and is subject to a number of uncertainties, including volatile macroeconomic conditions that may negatively impact our customers or potential customers willingness to purchase our platform. We have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, or if we are not able to accurately forecast future growth, our business would be harmed. Our focus on long-term value over short-term results may also impact our future growth. We may make strategic decisions that may not maximize our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our mission to deliver customer success and will improve our financial performance over the long-term. For example, we expect to continue enhancing our pricing model to enable customers to obtain our products and solutions on an individual or bundled basis. Historically, customers have purchased access to our products and solutions primarily on a platform and seat-based model. This could lead to a change in revenue or profitability, particularly in the short-term, if new or renewing customers decide to purchase products and solutions that are less expensive, in the aggregate, than the cost under our historical pricing model. Our business could be harmed if we fail to manage our operations to support our rapid growth and potential future growth. Our rapid growth has placed, and might continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our headcount and operations both domestically and internationally, with no assurance that our business or revenue will continue to grow, or grow at the same rates, as in prior periods. Continuing to create a centrally managed global organization with a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort, the allocation of valuable management resources and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continually improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we might not be able to do so effectively, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we might be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which might negatively impact our gross margins or operating expenses in any particular quarter. Moreover, if we fail to manage our anticipated growth in operations and employee headcount in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our platform might suffer, which could harm our brand and reputation, and our ability to retain and attract customers. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to scale our business. While we have experienced revenue growth in recent periods, we do not know whether or when we will generate sufficient revenue to sustain or increase our growth or achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs and expenses to continue to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase. In particular, we intend to continue to expend significant funds to further develop our platform and applications and to grow our business, including: investments in sales and marketing, including expanding our sales force and our customer service team and increasing market awareness of our platform; 21 investments in our research and development team and in the enhancement of our platform and core solutions and the development of new applications; expanding our operations, infrastructure and facilities, including our international operations; and hiring additional employees. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased compliance costs associated with growth and the expansion of our customer base, and we will also continue to incur new costs associated with being a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, our revenue growth may be slower than we expect and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this report, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and our Class A common stock may significantly decrease. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our market is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, industry standards, new discrete product introductions and incremental improvements of legacy systems. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. We primarily compete with providers of financial consolidation, reporting, planning or analytics software, including legacy players such as Oracle, SAP and Infor and point product providers such as Anaplan, Blackline, Wolters Kluwer and Workday. We anticipate continued competitive challenges from current competitors who address different aspects of our offerings, and in many cases, these competitors are more established and enjoy greater resources than we do. We also expect competitive challenges from new entrants into our industry. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages, such as: greater name recognition, longer operating histories and larger customer bases; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources and the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; broader, deeper or otherwise more established relationships with customers and partners; wider geographic presence or greater access to larger customer bases; greater focus in specific geographies or industries; lower labor and research and development costs; larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios; more advanced artificial intelligence, or AI, and machine learning capabilities and products; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources to provide support, make acquisitions, hire talent and develop new products. Some of our competitors have made or could make acquisitions of businesses or could enter into strategic partnerships, including partnerships with cloud providers, that allow them to offer more competitive and comprehensive products or pricing terms. As a result, our current or potential competitors may be able to accelerate the adoption of new technologies that better address customer needs, devote greater resources to bring these platforms and applications to market, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or develop and expand their product and 22 service offerings more quickly than we can. In addition, it is possible that industry consolidation may impact customers perceptions of the viability of smaller or even midsize software firms and consequently customers willingness to purchase from such firms. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current or potential competitors, we may experience lower sales, price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share or the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. In addition, companies competing with us may have an entirely different pricing model. We may be required to revise our pricing or make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to such competitive threats. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or potential competitors. If we are unable to anticipate or effectively react to these competitive challenges, or if competing successfully requires us to take costly actions in response to the actions of our competitors, we could experience a decline in our growth rate and revenue that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our industry does not continue to develop as we anticipate or if potential customers do not continue to adopt our platform and applications, our sales will not grow as quickly as expected, or at all, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We are focused on creating a modern, unified platform for the Office of the CFO in a rapidly evolving industry and market acceptance of our platform is critical to our continued success. Our platform and applications are relatively new, continue to evolve and have been developed to respond to an increasingly global and complex business environment with rigorous regulatory standards. If organizations do not increasingly allocate their budgets to solutions like ours or if we do not succeed in convincing potential customers that our platform should be an integral part of their approach to their enterprise performance management, or EPM, our sales might not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all. Our business is substantially dependent on businesses recognizing that EPM inefficiencies are pervasive and are not effectively addressed by legacy approaches. Economic uncertainty or volatility, or future deterioration in general economic, market, political or social conditions, might also cause our customers to cut or delay their information technology or other business spending, and such cuts might disproportionately affect businesses like ours to the extent customers view our platform as too costly or as discretionary. If our revenue does not increase for any of these reasons, or any other reason, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. If our platform or applications contain serious errors or defects, we might lose revenue and market acceptance and suffer harm to our reputation, and might incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims. Complex solutions such as ours can contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal and third-party testing and testing by our customers, our current and future platform, core solutions and applications might contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenue or a delay in market acceptance. Because our customers use our platform and applications for critical enterprise functions, such as assisting in the financial close or account reconciliation process, any errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our customers. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to such claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, such a claim brought against us would likely be time-consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our platform. Our business depends substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions and expanding their use of our platform. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, if they renew on less favorable terms or if they do not add more products, solutions or users, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. In order for us to maintain or improve our business, operating results and financial condition, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when their contract term expires and add products, solutions and users to their subscriptions. Our initial subscription term is typically three years, but can range from less than one year up to ten years. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their existing subscription period. Although our customer retention rate has been high historically, we cannot assure you that we will not 23 experience lower customer retention rates in the future, or that we will be able to accurately predict renewal rates. Our customers may decide not to renew their subscriptions at all, or may decide not to renew with a similar contract period, at the same prices or terms, or with the same or a greater amount of products, solutions or users. Our customer retention may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our customers satisfaction with our platform and applications, the quality of our professional services and customer support, our prices, the features and pricing of competing products, reductions in our customers spending levels, customer adoption and expanded use of our platform, mergers and acquisitions involving our customers and uncertain or deteriorating general economic conditions. Our ability to increase the number of users may also be negatively impacted by current and future AI capabilities that may reduce or replace our customers need for existing or future employees who are or would be potential users of our platform. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, if they renew on less favorable terms or if they do not add more products, solutions or users, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large enterprises, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the complexity of customer problems that our platform and applications address, the resourceintensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of our sales cycles and the difficulty in making shortterm adjustments to our operating expenses. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. The average length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to payment for our subscriptions and licenses, is four to eight months, but can vary substantially from customer to customer and can extend over a number of years for some customers. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our platform. Customers often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our platform but also other companies products. In addition, the size of potential customers may lead to longer sales cycles. For instance, we invest resources into sales to large organizations, and large organizations typically undertake a significant evaluation and negotiation process due to their leverage, size, organizational structure and approval requirements, all of which can lengthen our sales cycle. Our ability to close sales during long sales cycles has in the past been, and may in the future be, negatively impacted by events outside of our control, such as labor union strikes and volatile macroeconomic conditions. We may also face unexpected deployment challenges with large organizations or more complicated deployment of our platform and core solutions. Large organizations may demand additional features, support services and pricing concessions or require additional security management or control features. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on sales efforts to large organizations without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. As a result, it is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale to a potential customer or if we can increase sales to our existing customers. Individual sales tend to be large as a proportion of our overall sales, which impacts our ability to plan and manage cash flows and margins. These large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial up-front investments do not result in sufficient revenue to justify our investments, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, within each quarter, it is difficult to project the month in which a sale will close. Therefore, it is difficult to determine whether we are achieving our quarterly expectations or will achieve annual expectations until near the end of the quarter or year, as applicable. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed or require time to adjust. Therefore, if expectations for our business are not accurate, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, and our margins and cash flows may differ from expectations. Our revenue growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, including go-to-market and implementation partners, and if we are unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with them, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We seek to grow our partner ecosystem as a way to grow our business. We anticipate that we will continue to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including go-to-market, implementation and development partners. We plan to continue to establish and maintain similar strategic relationships in certain industry verticals and otherwise, and we expect our go-to-market partners to become an increasingly important aspect of our business. However, these strategic relationships could limit our ability in the future to compete in certain industry verticals and, depending on the success of our partners and the industries that those partners operate in generally, may negatively impact our business because of the nature of strategic alliances, exclusivity provisions, or otherwise. As our 24 agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our future revenue growth and ability to achieve and sustain profitability depends in part on our ability to identify, establish and retain successful strategic partner relationships in the United States and internationally, which will take significant time and resources and involve significant risk. To the extent we do identify such partners, we cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate commercially attractive terms with any strategic partner, if at all. In addition, all implementation partners must be trained to implement our platform. In order to develop and expand our go-to-market channels, we must continue to develop and improve our processes for go-to-market partner introduction and implementation partner training. The success of our partner training programs is critical to our ability to provide adequate customer support and product implementation services. If we do not succeed in identifying suitable strategic partners, maintaining our relationships with such partners and upskilling them through our training programs, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the partners with whom we have strategic relationships will continue to devote the resources necessary to expand our reach and increase our distribution. In addition, customer satisfaction with services and other support from our strategic partners may be less than anticipated, negatively impacting anticipated revenue growth and operating results. We cannot be certain that these partners will prioritize or provide adequate resources to selling our platform. Further, some of our strategic partners offer competing products or also work with our competitors. As a result of these factors, many of the companies with whom we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products in addition to or in lieu of our platform, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. We cannot assure you that our strategic partners will continue to cooperate with us. In addition, actions taken or omitted to be taken by such parties may adversely affect us. Moreover, we rely on our partners to operate in accordance with the terms of their contractual agreements with us. For example, our agreements with our implementation partners limit the terms and conditions pursuant to which they are authorized to offer technical support and related services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, or if our strategic partners do not comply with their contractual obligations to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these relationships with third parties, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in growing our customer or user base or increased revenue to us. We recognize revenue from SaaS subscriptions to our platform over the terms of these subscriptions. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern. We recognize revenue from our SaaS contracts ratably over the term of the subscription period, which is typically three years but can range from less than one year up to ten years. We recognize the majority of the revenue from our term-based and perpetual licenses when our software is first made available to the customer or upon commencement of the license term, if later, and the remainder is attributable to maintenance and support fees recognized ratably over the contract term. Following our transition to a SaaS-based model, the majority of our revenue in each quarter since the first quarter of 2023 has been derived from the recognition of revenue relating to SaaS contracts entered into during previous quarters, and we expect that trend to continue. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed SaaS contracts in any single quarter may only have a small impact on the revenue that we recognize for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of customer or user expansion or retention may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our costs are expensed as incurred. As a result, growth in the number of new customers, products, solutions or users could continue to result in our recognition of higher costs and lower revenue in the earlier periods of our subscriptions. As we continue to transition more existing customers to our SaaS-based pricing model it also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers or from existing customers that renew their subscriptions on a SaaS-basis must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our continued transition to a SaaS-based model could cause our operating results to fluctuate. We began offering subscriptions to our platform under SaaS contracts in the third quarter of 2020; since 2023, customers on SaaS contracts have accounted for the majority of our total revenue and more than 90% of our new 25 customers have been on SaaS contracts. We expect revenue from SaaS contracts to contribute an increasing portion of total revenue over time, but we may continue to offer licenses to certain customers in limited circumstances, such as government agencies or large enterprises in heavily regulated industries. Under our SaaS-based model, we generally recognize revenue ratably over the term of the contract. Our continued transition of existing customers to SaaS contracts results in revenue we otherwise would have recognized in the initial period of a perpetual or term-based license agreement being recognized in a later period. Further, certain customers with term-based license agreements may not wish to renew on a SaaS-basis when their existing contracts expire, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to convert perpetual license customers to our SaaS-based model, each of which could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Changes in our pricing model could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As the markets for our platform grow, as new competitors introduce new products that compete with ours or as we enter into new international markets, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have historically used. In addition, we have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for subscriptions to our platform and paid applications offered through the OneStream Solution Exchange. Our competitors may introduce new products that compete with ours or reduce their prices, or we may be unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers based on our current pricing model. As a result, we may be required or choose to reduce our prices or change our pricing model, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, we expect to continue enhancing our pricing model to enable customers to obtain our products and solutions on an individual or bundled basis. Historically, customers have purchased access to our products and solutions primarily on a platform and seat-based model. This could lead to a change in revenue or profitability, particularly in the short-term, if new or renewing customers decide to purchase products and solutions that are less expensive, in the aggregate, than the cost under our historical pricing model. Regardless of pricing model used, large customers may demand deeper price discounts than in the past. As a result, we may be required to reduce our prices, offer shorter contract durations or offer alternative pricing models, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow. We may choose not to introduce or be unsuccessful in implementing future price increases. Given our limited operating history and limited experience with our current subscription and pricing models, we may not be able to accurately predict customer renewal or retention rates. Our quarterly results might fluctuate, and, if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results might fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who might follow our stock, the price of our Class Acommon stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that might cause our revenue, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: our ability to attract new customers and retain and increase sales to existing customers; our ability to continue transitioning existing customers from term-based or perpetual licenses to SaaS subscriptions upon the expiration of their current contracts; the uneven revenue contribution from customers with perpetual licenses; the ability to implement our platform and core solutions, which depends in part on the availability of qualified partners and employees; our ability to expand into new markets, including international markets; the number of new employees added; 26 the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business, including changes in the cost of our cloud-computing arrangements with Microsoft; high inflation and our ability to control our costs, including employee wages and benefits and other operating expenses; new products, features or functionalities introduced by us and our competitors; the amount and timing of our equity-based compensation expenses; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions in the availability of our platform; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; general economic conditions that might harm either our customers ability or willingness to expand their usage of our platform, delay a prospective customers purchasing decision or affect customer retention; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; impact of applicable tax laws, rules and regulations; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and the timing and the amount of grants or vesting of equity awards to employees. In addition, under certain SaaS contracts, customers may contractually increase the number of users over time, particularly for larger or more complex deployments. For such contracts, the amount of revenue recognized may be lower than ARR as ARR reflects the annualized software revenue, as of a measurement date, that will be recognized assuming any contract expiring in the next 12 months is renewed at the rate prevailing in the final month of the contract, and therefore revenue may grow more slowly than ARR. If, however, we determine that a contract will be cancelled or reduced, we exclude the cancelled or reduced contract from our calculation of ARR, meaning that it may decline more quickly than revenue. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our revenue, operating results and cash flows to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, operating results and cash flows might not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Seasonality causes our operating results and financial metrics to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them more difficult to predict. Because many of our core solutions and applications focus on finance functions, including financial close and consolidation, financial and operational planning, account reconciliation, reporting and analytics, we have historically experienced pronounced seasonality in the third and fourth quarters. We typically acquire a relatively larger proportion of our customers in these quarters as a result of procurement cycles at our target customers and timing of our customers phased-in implementation of our core solutions. Because our customers also include U.S. government agencies, we have experienced an increase in revenue in the fourth quarter following the end of the federal governments fiscal year. The rapid growth in our business has offset the impact of this seasonal trend to date and, because we recognize a portion of our revenue ratably, increases or decreases in new sales, customer expansion or 27 renewals in a given period may not be immediately reflected in revenue for that period. We expect that seasonality will continue to affect our operating results and may make them more difficult to predict. If we fail to develop, maintain and enhance our brand and reputation cost-effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that developing, maintaining and enhancing awareness and integrity of our brand and reputation in a cost-effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our platform and are important elements in attracting new customers and maintaining existing customers. We believe that the importance of our brand and reputation will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand depends on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, our ability to provide a reliable and useful platform at competitive prices, the perceived value of our platform, our ability to maintain our customers trust, our ability to continue to develop additional applications and use cases, and our ability to differentiate our platform and capabilities from competitive offerings. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building and maintaining our brand and reputation. We also rely on our customer and user base in a variety of ways, including to give us feedback on our platform. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully or to maintain loyalty among our customers, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers and partners or retain our existing customers and partners and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Any negative publicity relating to our employees, partners or others associated with these parties may also tarnish our own reputation simply by association and may reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our brand and reputation may result in reduced demand for our platform and increased risk of losing market share to our competitors. Any efforts to restore the value of our brand and rebuild our reputation may be costly and may not be successful. Sales to government entities and highly regulated organizations are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We sell our platform to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governmental agency customers, as well as to customers in highly regulated industries such as financial services, telecommunications and healthcare. Sales to such entities are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to such entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time-consuming, often requiring significant up-front time and expense without any assurance that our efforts will generate a sale. We have achieved FedRAMP High Authorization, meaning our platform has met certain government security standards and been approved for use by U.S. federal agencies. Any change in our FedRAMP certification could impede our ability to enter into contracts with government entities. If we do not successfully manage our FedRAMP certification, our sales to governments and governmental agencies could be delayed or limited, and as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, government certification requirements for products like ours may change, thereby restricting our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained such revised certification or certifications. Government contracting requirements may also change and, in doing so, restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we or our partners have met government-mandated requirements. If we do not achieve and maintain compliance with government requirements, it may harm our competitive position against competitors whose offerings are able to meet these requirements. There can also be no assurance that we will secure commitments or contracts with government entities even following efforts to meet government requirements, which could harm our margins, business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, government entities and highly regulated organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, can have more complex IT and data environments and may expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities may demand contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and may be less favorable than terms agreed upon with private sector customers. Such entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with us or our partners for convenience or for other reasons. Contracts with governmental entities may also include preferential pricing terms, including, but not limited to, most favored customer pricing. In the event that we are successful in being awarded a government contract, such award may be subject to appeals, disputes or litigation, including but not limited to bid protests by unsuccessful bidders. 28 As a government contractor or subcontractor, we must comply with laws, regulations and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts, which affect how we and our partners do business with government agencies. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to renew our subscriptions, a reduction in revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. As a result of actual or perceived noncompliance with government contracting laws, regulations or contractual provisions, we may also be subject to non-ordinary course audits and government or internal investigations which may prove costly to our business financially, divert management time or limit our ability to continue selling our platform to our government customers. These laws, regulations and contractual provisions could result in other added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements could lead to claims for damages from our partners, downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations, civil or criminal penalties, investigations, audits, termination of contracts, fines and other penalties, including, but not limited to, the federal False Claims Act. Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements, or failure to maintain required certifications, could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time with government agencies. Any such damages, penalties, disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with a government would adversely impact our business, operating results, financial condition, public perception and growth prospects. Government demand and payment for our platform is affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, as well as government fiscal and contracting policies, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our platform. If budget appropriations are not obtained, we may face contract terminations. In addition, the current administration has stated its intent to evaluate overall government spending, which could impact our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects. More generally, if expected sales to a government entity or highly regulated organization for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects could be adversely affected. The metrics and estimates we use to evaluate our performance are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those estimates may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our metrics used to evaluate our growth, measure our performance and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data and have not been evaluated by a third party. Our metrics and estimates may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology or the assumptions on which we rely. In addition, our methodologies for tracking our metrics and performance may also change over time, which could result in changes to the metrics we disclose. If securities analysts or investors do not consider our metrics to be accurate representations of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our estimates, then the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, our reputation and brand could be harmed and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to introduce and successfully implement enhancements, new features or modifications to our platform and existing core solutions, or introduce and successfully implement new applications, our business could be harmed. As part of our growth strategy we expect to expand the number of applications available on our platform with a combination of internally developed applications and applications developed by our partner community. If we or our partners are unable to introduce and successfully implement new applications, enhancements or features, or fail to develop new applications that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects could be adversely affected. The success of enhancements and new applications depend on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. We must continue to meet changing expectations and requirements of our customers and, because our platform is designed to operate on a variety of systems and integrate a number of different technologies, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware and other software, communication, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our platform to operate effectively with future software and technologies or to evolve and scale to address the changing needs of our customers could reduce 29 the demand for our platform or result in customer dissatisfaction, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new software or technologies, or modifications to our platform or existing software or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. If we are not successful in developing modifications and enhancements to our platform or if we fail to introduce new applications to market in a timely fashion, our platform might become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete, our revenue growth might be significantly impaired and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If we are unable to successfully develop, implement and offer AI-enabled solutions on our platform or use AI technology in our business, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects could be harmed. We have developed and intend to continue to develop AI-enabled solutions offered through our platform and the OneStream Solution Exchange. We also expect AI technology to become more important to our operations and future growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from our investments in and use of AI technology. We may also fail to properly develop and implement AI technology or market our AI-enabled solutions. Our competitors or other third-parties may incorporate AI technology into their offerings more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. Additionally, our use of AI technology may expose us to claims, demands and proceedings by private parties and regulatory authorities and subject us to legal liability as well as brand and reputational harm. For example, if the output that our AI technology assists in producing is, or is alleged to be, deficient, inaccurate or biased, or if such output, including the collection, use or other processing of data used to train or create such output, is, or is alleged to be, infringing on or misappropriating third-party intellectual property rights or otherwise violating applicable laws, regulations or other actual or asserted legal obligations to which we are or may become subject, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Further, our employees, and other contractors or consultants, may input inappropriate or confidential information into an AI solution, thereby compromising our business operations, which may cause business operation disruptions, diversion of the attention of management and key information technology resources, and possibly lead to security breaches or incidents, or loss of, or unauthorized access to or other processing of, our confidential information or other business data. The legal, regulatory and policy environments around AI technology are evolving rapidly, including the EU AI Act and numerous laws proposed, and in certain cases enacted, in various U.S. states relating to the development and use of AI technology, and we may become subject to new and evolving legal and other obligations. These and other developments may require us to make significant changes to our use of AI technology, including by limiting or restricting our use of AI technology, which in turn may require us to spend significant time, money and other resources and make significant changes to our policies and practices. The use of AI technology also presents emerging ethical issues that could harm our reputation and business if our use of AI technology becomes controversial. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our platform and technology might harm our business, operating results, financial condition and reputation. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our platform at any time. Our platform is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering, operations and development teams, as well as our relationship with Microsoft for its Azure hosting services, for their continued performance. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform simultaneously, denial-of-service attacks or other security-related incidents, natural disasters, pandemics or other catastrophic events. In some instances, we might not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Because of the seasonal nature of financial close activities, increasing complexity of our platform and expanding user population, it might become difficult to accurately predict and timely address performance and capacity needs during peak load times and incorrect predictions may result in capacity constraints that prevent users from being able to access our platform within a reasonable amount of time or at all. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems and continually develop our 30 technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business, operating results and financial condition might be harmed. Further, interruptions or performance problems with our platform may cause our customers to experience serious damage, including the loss of data. This could cause customers to lose trust and confidence in us, and our reputation could be harmed. We provide service level commitments under our customer contracts. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide refunds or credits for future service, or face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts related to unused subscriptions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our customer contracts contain service level commitments, which contain specifications regarding the availability and performance of our platform. Any failure of or disruption to our infrastructure could impact the performance of our platform and the availability of services to customers. We may in the future be unable to meet our stated service level commitments and, if we were to suffer one or more extended periods of poor performance or unavailability of our platform, we could become contractually obligated to provide affected customers with service credits and, in certain cases, face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts related to unused subscriptions. In such an event, we may also be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend significant additional resources in order to help correct the problem. If we suffer performance issues, outages or downtime that exceeds the service level commitments under our contracts with our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of third-party data centers to deliver our cloud-based platform, and any disruption of service at these centers could harm our business. We manage our platform and serve most of our customers using cloud-based infrastructure that is owned and operated by Microsoft. We do not control the operation of these facilities. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any disruptions or delays from errors, defects, hacking, incidents, security breaches or incidents, computer viruses or other intentional bad acts or performance problems could harm our reputation, damage our customers businesses and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The third-party data centers that we use are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. If the data centers that we use were compromised or unavailable or our customers were unable to access our platform for any reason, our business and operations would be materially harmed. Our customers have experienced disruptions and outages in accessing our platform in the past, and might in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems. Although we expend considerable effort to ensure that our platform is capable of handling existing and increased traffic levels, the ability of our cloud-based platform to effectively manage any increased capacity requirements depends on our third-party providers. Our third-party data center providers might not be able meet such performance requirements, especially to cover peak levels or spikes in traffic, and as a result, our customers might experience delays in accessing our platform or encounter slower performance in our core solutions or applications, which could significantly impair the operations of our customers. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability and cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. 31 If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our customers could experience service shortfalls. The provisioning of additional cloud hosting capacity requires lead time. In addition, if these services and infrastructure become unavailable because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with, or achieve required capacity under, our agreements with Microsoft, we might be required to transfer the operation of our platform to new data center facilities, and we might incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. If we are unable to ensure that our platform interoperates with a variety of third-party software applications, we may become less competitive and our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Our platform must interoperate with a variety of third-party hardware and software systems and applications. Our business will be harmed if any provider of such software systems or applications: discontinues or limits our access to its software; modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on us, or other platform and application developers; changes how information is accessed by us or our customers; establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors; or develops or otherwise favors its own competitive offerings over our platform. Third-party services and products are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to modify our platform or core solutions to assure their compatibility with those of other third parties as they continue to develop or emerge in the future, or we may not be able to make such modifications in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to disrupt the operations or compatibility of our platform or core solutions with their products or services, or exert strong business influence on our ability to, and terms on which we, operate our platform. Should any of our competitors modify their products or standards in a manner that degrades the functionality of our platform or core solutions or gives preferential treatment to our competitors or competitive products, whether to enhance their competitive position or for any other reason, or if we are not permitted or able to integrate our platform or core solutions with these and other third-party applications in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform, core solutions or applications could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects. Our platform is deployed in a wide variety of technology environments and into a broad range of complex workflows. Our platform has been integrated into large-scale, enterprise-wide technology environments and specialized use cases, and our success depends on our ability, and the ability of our partner community, to implement our platform successfully in these environments. We and our implementation partners often assist our customers in implementing our platform, but many customers use a third-party service firm. If we, our implementation partners, non-certified third-parties or our customers are unable to implement our platform and core solutions successfully, or are unable to do so in a timely manner, inadequate performance might result and customer perceptions of our platform, core solutions, applications and company might be impaired, our reputation and brand might suffer, we may face legal claims, customers might choose not to renew or expand the use of our platform and we might lose opportunities for additional sales. If we or our implementation partners fail to provide sufficient high-quality training to enable our customers to realize significant business value from our platform, we may see a decrease in customer adoption of our platform. Our customers sometimes request training to assist them in implementing our platform and core solutions into their business and rely on our customer support personnel to resolve issues and realize the full benefits that our platform and core solutions provide. As a result, an increase in our number of customers is likely to increase demand 32 for training. Given that our customer base continues to grow, we expect that we will need to provide more customers with training to enable them to realize significant business value from our platform. We also rely on our ecosystem of implementation partners with trained and OneStream-certified professionals that help our customers implement our platform and core solutions and provide related training. We have been increasing our implementation partners and customer enablement through our training initiatives designed to create an ecosystem of people that are skilled in the use and implementation of our platform. However, if we or our implementation partners are unable to provide sufficient high-quality training resources, our customers may not effectively implement our platform or core solutions into their business or realize sufficient business value from our platform to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. Additionally, if our implementation partners fail to perform to our customers satisfaction or if the brand for any of our implementation partners is harmed, our customers may not choose to rely on our implementation partners for implementation and training. Any failure to offer high-quality support for our platform might harm our relationships with our customers and our financial results. In deploying and using our platform, our customers depend on our support services to resolve complex technical and operational issues. We might be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for product support. We also might be unable to modify the nature, scope and delivery of our product support to compete with changes in product support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for product support, without corresponding revenue, could increase our costs and harm our operating results. Increased customer demand and expansion of our customer base, including in international markets, may also require us to outsource certain technical and operational support services to third-party providers. There is no guarantee that such third parties would be able to provide an adequate level of support or that we will be able to implement an effective support escalation plan to address issues these third-party providers are unable to address or resolve to our customers satisfaction. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality product support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality product support, could harm our reputation, our ability to sell our platform to existing and prospective customers, our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees and the loss of one or more of these employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, operations, security, marketing, sales and general and administrative functions. In particular, Mr. Shea, our co-founder and chief executive officer, provides our strategic direction, is one of our core solution architects and has built and maintained what we believe is an attractive workplace culture. From time to time, there might be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. If we are not successful in integrating new key employees into our organization, such failure could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, especially our chief executive officer, could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel or to maintain our company culture could harm our business and prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel across our business, both in the United States and internationally. Competition for personnel is intense, especially for experienced sales personnel and engineers experienced in designing and developing cloud-based solutions and applications, including products with AI and machine learning capabilities. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have, and some of these companies may offer more attractive compensation packages. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers might attempt to assert that we or these employees have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a 33 diversion of our time and resources. Likewise, if competitors hire our employees, we might divert time and resources to deterring any breach by our former employees or their new employers of their legal obligations. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it might harm our ability to recruit and retain highly-skilled employees. Further, laws and regulations, such as restrictive immigration laws or export control laws, may limit our ability to recruit internationally. We must also continue to retain and motivate existing employees through our compensation practices, company culture and career development opportunities. We may fail to identify, attract and retain talented and diverse employees who support our corporate culture that we believe fosters innovation, teamwork, diversity and inclusion, and which we believe is critical to our success. If we fail to identify, attract, develop and integrate new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects would be severely harmed. As we continue to grow and further develop our public company infrastructure, we may find it difficult to maintain our company culture. In particular, increasing our customer and user base and sales will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force and marketing team over time, both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales and marketing professionals with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of experienced professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales segments and territories. Our recent hires and planned hires might not become as productive as quickly as we expect, and we might be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be harmed if our sales expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue. Unfavorable macroeconomic conditions that impact us or our customers or potential customers could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects. Recent macroeconomic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation, higher interest rates, which can increase borrowing costs, global banking system instability, wars and conflicts in Ukraine/Russia, Israel/Gaza and throughout the Middle East, other geopolitical tensions, labor strikes and the remaining effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, have negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and created continued uncertainty, volatility and disruption of financial markets. They have also caused customers and potential customers to optimize consumption, rationalize budgets and prioritize cash flow management. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, the lengthening of sales cycles and a negative impact on customer acquisition and renewals, customer collections and our sales and marketing efforts. These and other direct and indirect impacts of unfavorable macroeconomic conditions on us and our customers and potential customers could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects. 34 We may need additional capital, and we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Historically, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily through equity issuances and cash generated from our operations. Although we currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents, available borrowings under our credit facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing. We evaluate financing opportunities from time to time, and our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Future sales and issuances of our capital stock or rights to purchase our capital stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. We may sell Class A common stock, convertible securities and other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner as we may determine from time to time. If we sell any such securities in subsequent transactions, investors may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Our credit facility includes, and any future debt financing could involve, restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth, development efforts and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We may acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could further complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions or investments may divert the attention of our management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions or investments, whether or not they are completed. If we do complete acquisitions or investments, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any transactions we complete could be viewed negatively by customers, partners or investors. In addition, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully or effectively manage the combined company following an acquisition. Any integration process will require significant time and resources, require significant attention from management and disrupt the ordinary functioning of our business, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully, which could harm our business. If we fail to successfully integrate our acquisitions, or the people or technologies associated with those acquisitions, into our company, the operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not successfully evaluate or use the acquired technology and accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Further, we cannot guarantee that any company we may acquire has appropriately created, maintained or enforced intellectual property rights in their technology, potentially subjecting us to infringement claims if we were to adopt or use such technology. Indemnification and other rights under acquisition documents may be limited in term and scope and may therefore provide little or no protection from these risks. We may pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock. The sale of equity to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders. If we incur more debt, it will result in increased fixed obligations and could also subject us to covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to flexibly operate our business. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings, regulatory disputes and government investigations that could cause us to incur significant expenses, divert our managements attention and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings involving products liability, competition and antitrust, intellectual property rights, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, consumer protection, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes and other matters that 35 could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As a newly public company our business and operating results are more visible, which may increase the risk of threatened or actual litigation, regulatory disputes and government investigations. Legal and regulatory proceedings and government investigations may be protracted and expensive and the results are difficult to predict. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages and include claims for injunctive relief. Additionally, our litigation and other associated costs could be significant. Adverse outcomes with respect to litigation or any of these legal proceedings, disputes or investigations may result in significant settlement costs or judgments, penalties and fines or require us to modify our platform, all of which could negatively affect our revenue growth. The results of litigation, investigations, claims and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, and determining reserves for pending litigation and other legal and regulatory matters requires significant judgment. There can be no assurance that our expectations will prove correct, and even if these matters are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, these matters, and the time and resources necessary to litigate or resolve them, could harm our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Under our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, our current and former directors and certain of our officers with respect to past, current and future investigations and litigation. The scope of our indemnification obligations may be broader than the coverage available under our directors and officers liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them. We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims. Further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute. Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Increased scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, customers, partners, employees and other stakeholders regarding our environmental, social and governance practices could cause us to incur additional costs, devote additional resources and expose us to additional risks, which could adversely impact our reputation, customer acquisition and retention, access to capital and employee retention. Companies across many industries are facing scrutiny related to their environmental, social and governance, or ESG, practices. Investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders have focused increasingly on ESG practices and placed increasing importance on the implications and social cost of their investments, purchases, work and other interactions with companies. For example, many investment funds focus on positive ESG business practices and sustainability scores when making investments and may consider a companys ESG or sustainability scores as a reputational or other factor in making an investment decision. In addition, investors, particularly institutional investors, use these scores to benchmark companies against their peers, and if a company is perceived as lagging, these investors may engage with such company to improve ESG disclosure or performance and may also make voting decisions on this basis. Our customers and partners are also increasingly focused on our ESG practices. With this increased focus and demand, public reporting regarding ESG practices is becoming more broadly expected. If our ESG practices and future reporting do not meet investor, customer, partner or employee expectations, which continue to evolve, our brand, reputation and customer acquisition and retention may be negatively impacted. Any public disclosure we make may include our policies and practices on a variety of ESG matters, including corporate governance, environmental compliance, employee health and safety practices, human capital management and workforce inclusion and diversity. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG reporting, our ESG practices or our speed of adoption. We could also incur additional costs and devote additional resources to monitor, report and implement various ESG practices. If we fail, or are perceived to be failing, to meet the standards included in any sustainability disclosure or the expectations of our various stakeholders, it could negatively impact our reputation, customer acquisition and retention, access to capital and employee retention. 36 Risks Related to our International Operations Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our platform to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently maintain offices in the United States and in Australia, Europe and Singapore, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations. Any international expansion efforts that we may undertake might not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations in new markets subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: ability to negotiate and contract in foreign languages; localization of our platform, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements, including financial accounting standards; lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; differing technology standards and differing acceptance and adoption of cloud-based software products; different pricing environments, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and differing employer-employee relationships; fluctuations in exchange rates that have and may continue to increase the volatility of our foreign-based revenue; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax (or other tax) systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; uncertain political and economic climates, wars and geopolitical tensions; difficulties in obtaining local partners; and reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. These factors might cause our costs of doing business internationally to exceed our comparable domestic costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, entry into certain transactions with foreign entities now or in the future may be subject to government regulations, including review related to foreign direct investment by U.S. or foreign government entities. If a transaction with a foreign entity was subject to regulatory review, such regulatory review might limit our ability to enter into the desired strategic alliance and thus our ability to carry out our long-term business strategy. 37 We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. International sales of our platform are subject to export controls, including the Commerce Departments Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations established by the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular export or sale might be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and might result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. U.S. export controls and economic and trade sanctions prohibit the export, re-export or transfer of products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries and their governments and sanctioned or restricted persons, which we refer to as prohibited persons. Even though we take precautions to prevent our platform from being provided in violation of sanctions, our platform could be sold by resellers or could be used by persons in sanctioned countries or prohibited persons despite such precautions. Failure to comply with the U.S. export control, sanctions and import laws and regulations could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. We and our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. We also could suffer reputational harm and penalties if our resellers fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations. In addition, various countries regulate the import of encryption technology, including through import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our platform or could limit our customers ability to implement or access our platform in those countries. Changes in export, sanctions and import laws and regulations could create delays in the introduction and sale of our platform in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from accessing our platform or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform to some countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, economic sanctions or related laws and regulations, shifts in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform or in our decreased ability to export or sell our platform to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any limitation on our ability to export or sell our platform would likely cause its overall use to decrease and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corruption Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and anti-money laundering and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, U.S. domestic bribery laws, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and anti-money laundering and similar laws, in the countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives and agents from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or other benefits, to government officials or others in the private sector in order to influence official action, direct business to any person, gain any improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. Anti-money laundering laws generally prohibit persons from engaging in transactions where the proceeds at issue derive from, or are intended to facilitate or conceal, illegal activity or where a party to the transaction is willfully blind to the illegal sources of the proceeds. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. We sometimes engage with third-parties to market our platform or conduct our business in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we, our employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives and agents may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of our employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that none of our employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives and agents will take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. 38 Detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources and attention from senior management, as well as significant defense costs and other professional fees. In addition, any allegations of a violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, severe civil or criminal penalties or injunctions against us, our officers or our employees, disgorgement of profits, suspension or debarment from contracting with governments or other persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences, all of which may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, financial condition, stock price and prospects. We may face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We sell to customers globally and have significant international operations. As we continue to expand our international operations, we will become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although the significant majority of our cash generated from revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a material portion is denominated in foreign currencies, and our expenses are generally denominated in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our operations. Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, we also face remeasurement exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could hinder our ability to predict our future results and earnings and could materially impact our operating results. Therefore, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar and decreases in the value of foreign currencies could result in the dollar equivalent of our revenue being lower. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge exposures to non-U.S. dollar currencies. To the extent we adjust our pricing in non-U.S. currencies in the future to offset a change in dollar-equivalent revenue as a result of a relative shift in the value of the U.S. dollar, it may negatively effect international demand for our products and solutions, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our international business and operating results. Risks Related to our Technology and Intellectual Property If our security controls or those of our vendors are breached or unauthorized, unlawful or inadvertent access to customer data or other data we maintain or process is otherwise obtained, or if the information systems on which we rely experience any other type of cybersecurity incident, or any technical failure that compromises our information or operations, our platform and applications might be perceived as insecure, we might lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers, and we might incur significant liabilities. Use of our platform, core solutions and applications involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential data, including highly confidential financial information regarding their business and personal information regarding their customers or employees. Additionally, we maintain our own proprietary, confidential, personal and otherwise sensitive information. We rely on systems, websites and other services, including some that are managed by third parties, for the provision of our platform, core solutions and applications and such IT systems and services are at risk for security breaches and incidents, as well as technical failures and outages, as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor or contractor error, malfeasance, bugs, ransomware and other malicious software, or other factors. Cyberattacks and other malicious Internet-based activity continue to increase generally in number, intensity and sophistication, and cloud-based platform providers of software and services have been targeted. Techniques used to compromise or sabotage systems change frequently, may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world and may be difficult to detect. These risks may be heightened in connection with wars and conflicts in Ukraine/Russia, Israel/Gaza and throughout the Middle East, and other geopolitical tensions and regional instability. As a result, we may be vulnerable to, and may be unable to anticipate or detect, security breaches and incidents. In addition, many of our employees (and those of our vendors) are working remotely, which may pose additional cybersecurity risks associated with managing remote computing assets and security vulnerabilities that are present in many non-corporate and home networks. We have implemented various controls, systems and processes intended to secure our systems and the information on it. However, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective or that technical errors or attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even if the vulnerabilities that may 39 lead to an incident are identified, we may be unable to adequately investigate or remediate for any number of reasons, including due to attackers using tools (including AI) and techniques that are designed to circumvent controls, avoid detection and remove or obfuscate forensic evidence. In the normal course of business, we, like many other companies, are and have been the target of malicious cyberattack attempts and have experienced other security incidents. To date, such identified security events have not been material to us, including to our reputation or business operations, or had a material financial impact, but there can be no assurance that future cyberattacks or other security breaches or incidents will not be material. Additionally, as our market presence grows, we, and service providers who store or otherwise process data on our behalf, and other third parties on which we rely, may face increased risks of cyberattack attempts or security threats. We are reliant on third-party security measures to protect against unauthorized access, cyberattacks and other security breaches and incidents and the mishandling of customer, employee and other confidential or sensitive data and we may be required to expend significant time and resources to address any security breaches or incidents related to the failure of those third-party security measures. Our ability to monitor our third-party service providers cybersecurity, and that of other third parties on which we rely, is limited, and in any event, attackers may be able to circumvent the security measures of our third party service providers or other third parties on which we rely. There have been and may continue to be significant attacks on certain third-party providers, and we cannot guarantee that our or our third-party providers systems and networks, or those of other third parties on which we rely, have not been breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our systems and networks or the systems and networks of third parties that support us and our platform, core solutions and applications. If any unauthorized or inadvertent access to, or a security breach or any other incident impacting our platform, core solutions or applications occurs, or is believed to occur, such an event could result in the loss or unavailability of data, loss of intellectual property rights or intellectual property protection, unauthorized access to, or use, alteration, disclosure or other processing of data, interruptions to or disruption of our platform, core solutions or applications, loss of business, difficulty attracting new customers, severe reputational damage harming customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations, proceedings, orders, litigation (including class actions), indemnity obligations, and damages for contract breach or fines, penalties or other liabilities. Security breaches and other incidents that we or our service providers suffer could also result in significant response and remediation costs, which might include liability for misappropriated, altered, converted or lost assets or information and repair of system damage that might have been caused, incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach or incident and other liabilities. Any actual or perceived security breach or incident could harm our ability to operate our business and may impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into existing and new markets or cause us to lose existing customers. If a high-profile security breach or incident occurs with respect to us or another provider of cloud software, our customers and potential customers might lose trust in the security of our platform or in the cloud software industry generally, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. Even in the absence of any security breach or incident, customer concerns about security, privacy or data protection might deter them from using our platform for activities that involve personal or other sensitive information, which may harm our business and operating results. Further, any actual, potential or anticipated cyberattacks or other sources of security breaches or incidents also may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. Additionally, many jurisdictions have enacted or may enact laws and regulations requiring companies to provide notification of, or generally disclose, security breaches or incidents involving certain types of personal data and related matters. For example, the SEC has adopted cybersecurity risk management and disclosure rules that require the disclosure of information pertaining to cybersecurity incidents and cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance. Such disclosures regarding a security breach or incident could result in negative publicity to us, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures which could impact our operating results. Further, because cybersecurity is a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make statements in public-facing materials and otherwise provide assurances about the security of our platform. Should any of these statements be untrue or become untrue, even as a result of circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we might face claims of misrepresentation or deceptiveness by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, U.S. state and foreign regulators and private litigants. We incur significant expenses to minimize the risk of security breaches and incidents, and may find it necessary or appropriate to increase expenditures with respect to cybersecurity, in response to a security breach or incident or 40 otherwise. Although we maintain errors or omissions and cyber liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. We could incur substantial costs in expanding, protecting or defending our intellectual property rights, and any failure to obtain, maintain, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and technology (such as code, information, data, processes and other forms of information, know-how and technology) and our ability to expand our existing intellectual property portfolio. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, invention assignment and confidentiality agreements, as well as our agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others, to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate and we may not be able to secure our intellectual property rights in the U.S. and the international markets in which we operate. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Even if we do detect violations, we may need to engage in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights might be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. Any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights that we have or may obtain may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated or held unenforceable through administrative processes, including re-examination, inter partes review, interference, and derivation proceedings and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (such as opposition, invalidation and cancellation proceedings) or litigation. Even if we seek patent protection in the future, we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our proprietary technology. In addition, any patents issued from pending or future patent applications or licensed to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent and trademark agencies also require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent and trademark application process and after a patent or trademark registration has issued. There are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or trademark filing, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent or trademark rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If this occurs, our competitors might be able to enter the market. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with our third-party providers and strategic partners. However, we cannot assure you that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, and use and distribution of, our platform and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our offerings. We may also enter into strategic partnerships, joint development and other similar agreements with third parties where intellectual property arising from such partnerships may be jointly-owned or may be transferred or licensed to the counterparty. Such arrangements may limit our ability to protect, maintain, enforce or commercialize such intellectual property rights, including requiring agreement with or payment to our joint development partners before protecting, maintaining, licensing or initiating enforcement of such intellectual property rights, and may allow such joint development partners to register, maintain, enforce or license such intellectual property rights in a manner that may affect the value of the jointly-owned intellectual property or our ability to compete in the market. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our brands, products and platform capabilities, and use information that we regard as proprietary to create brands and products that compete with ours. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us or commercially feasible in every country in which our platform is available. Further, intellectual 41 property law, including statutory and case law, particularly in the United States, is constantly developing, and any changes in the law could make it harder for us to enforce our rights. The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights, or adopt trademarks that are similar to our trademarks. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, as noted below, litigation or other actions may be necessary to protect or enforce our trademarks and other intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation. As we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and platform capabilities and proprietary information will likely increase. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak or inadequate. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States and by other national governments and from interpretations of the intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Assertions against us by third parties alleging infringement or misappropriation of their intellectual property rights or confidential know-how could result in significant costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There is considerable activity in our industry to develop proprietary technology and enforce intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our platform and underlying technology, and we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover aspects of our platform or the underlying technology. Accordingly, third parties may claim that our platform and underlying technology are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights and such third parties may bring claims alleging such infringement, misappropriation or violation. As one example, there may be issued patents of which we are not aware, held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or solutions. There also may be pending patent applications of which we are not aware that may result in issued patents, which could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or products. Because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover our current or future technologies. Claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights might require us to stop using technology found to violate a third partys rights, redesign our platform, which could require significant effort and expense and cause delays of releases, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or ongoing royalties, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling our platform. With respect to claims that our technology or the conduct of our business infringe or otherwise violate intellectual property rights, or if we cannot or do not obtain licenses to such intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar non-infringing technology from another source, we could be forced to limit or stop selling our platform. In addition, we may be unable to meet our obligations to customers under our customer contracts or to compete effectively, and our revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted. We might also be obligated to indemnify our customers or other companies in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our platform or refund subscription fees, which could harm our financial results. In addition, we might incur substantial costs to resolve claims or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us, which could include payment of significant settlement, royalty or license fees, modification of our platform or refunds to customers of subscription fees. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and other employees from our business operations. Such disputes could also disrupt our sales and marketing efforts, making it more difficult to attract new customers, retain our existing customers and maintain customer satisfaction. 42 We use open source software in our platform, which could negatively affect our ability to offer our products and subject us to litigation or other adverse consequences. Our platform, including certain aspects of our AI-enabled solutions and applications, uses software governed by open source licenses. The use of open source software involves a number of risks, many of which cannot be eliminated and could negatively affect our business. For example, the terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our platform. By the terms of certain open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses. Additionally, the use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the use of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their platforms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming misuse of, or a right to compensation for, what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, harm our business, operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our platform. Although we have implemented policies to regulate the use and incorporation of open source software into our platform, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our platform in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies. If we inappropriately use open source software, we might be required to re-engineer our platform, discontinue the sale of our platform or take other remedial actions. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position may be harmed. We rely heavily on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, and to maintain our competitive position. However, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect these trade secrets and other proprietary technology, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, consultants and other third parties, including suppliers and other partners. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Moreover, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Further, these agreements may not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our platform capabilities. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. While we have taken steps to enjoin misappropriation that we are aware of, such steps may not ultimately be successful, and we may not be aware of all such misappropriation. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our customer agreements may include an obligation for us to enter into a source code escrow arrangement under which our source code may be released to customers in the event of a specified release event (for example, bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to provide agreed-upon maintenance or support for the services) for the sole purpose of maintaining use by the customer during the remainder of the term of the agreement. As a result of any such release, our customers will have access to our proprietary source code. While such access would be subject to duties of confidentiality, we cannot guarantee that our customers will comply with these obligations or otherwise not misuse our source code. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their current or former employers or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. Many of our employees and consultants are currently or were previously employed at other companies in our field, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these individuals have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary 43 information, of any such individuals current or former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or key personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to comply with our obligations under license or technology agreements with third parties or are unable to license rights to use technologies on reasonable terms, we may be required to pay damages and could potentially lose license rights that are critical to our business. We license certain intellectual property and software from third parties that are important to our business, and in the future we may enter into additional agreements that provide us with licenses to valuable intellectual property or technology. If we fail to comply with any of the obligations under our license agreements, we may be required to pay damages and the licensor may have the right to terminate the license. Our business would suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, if the licensed intellectual property rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Moreover, our licensors may own or control intellectual property that has not been licensed to us and, as a result, we may be subject to claims, regardless of their merit, that we are infringing or otherwise violating the licensors rights. In the future, we may identify additional third-party intellectual property that we may need to license, or would benefit from licensing, in order to engage in our business. However, such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more-established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. Even if such licenses are available, we may be required to pay the licensor substantial royalties based on sales of our platform. Such royalties are a component of the cost of our platform and may affect our margins. In addition, such licenses may be non-exclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property licensed to us. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, operating results and financial condition. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with customers and other third parties generally include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services or other contractual obligations. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we often contractually limit our liability with respect to such indemnity obligations, those limitations may not be fully enforceable in all situations, and we may still incur substantial liability under those agreements. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing customers and new customers and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 44 Risks Related to Regulation and Taxation Privacy, data protection and cybersecurity concerns, and data collection and transfer restrictions and related domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our platform and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Privacy, cybersecurity and data protection are significant issues in the United States, Europe and many other jurisdictions where we offer our platform. The regulatory frameworks governing the collection, storage, use and other processing of business information, particularly information that affects financial statements and personal data, are rapidly evolving, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy, cybersecurity or data protection laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. Further, these laws are not always interpreted uniformly and there is no guarantee that regulators or consumers will agree with our approach to compliance. Additionally, any violations of applicable laws, regulations or policies by third parties we work with, such as vendors or developers, may put our customers content at risk and have an adverse effect on our business. Any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, or other processing of our customers content, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of customers for the collection, use, retention, disclosure or other processing of such content is obtained, could increase our costs and require us to modify our platform, core solutions and applications, or modify our policies or practices, possibly in a material manner, which we may be unable to do on a commercially reasonable basis or at all and, which may limit our ability to store and process customer data or develop new applications and features. For example, in the United States, several states have enacted new data privacy laws. The California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, or the CCPA, among other things, requires covered companies to provide required disclosures to California consumers, and afford such consumers abilities to opt out of certain processing of personal information. Additionally, many other states have proposed or enacted data privacy laws, including, for example, Washingtons My Health, My Data Act, and numerous laws similar to the CCPA. The U.S. federal government also is contemplating federal privacy legislation, reflecting a trend toward more stringent data privacy legislation. In addition, the U.S. federal government and various U.S. state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed requirements regarding obligations on companies to notify individuals of security breaches and incidents involving particular personal information, which could result from breaches and incidents experienced by us or by organizations with which we have formed or may form strategic relationships. Even though we may have certain contractual protections with such organizations, notifications or other public disclosure or dissemination of information related to any actual or perceived security breach or incident could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our expansion into new markets or cause us to lose existing customers. Further, many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, or the EU, where we conduct business and have offices or use vendors, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdiction. For example, we are subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation and applicable national supplementing laws, collectively the EU GDPR. We may also be subject to the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulations and Data Protection Act 2018, collectively the UK GDPR and together with the EU GDPR, the GDPR. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual and include a principle of accountability and the obligation to demonstrate compliance through policies, procedures, training and audit. The GDPR also regulates cross-border transfers of personal data out of the European Economic Area, or EEA, and the United Kingdom, or UK. With regard to data transfers of personal data from our European employees and customers to the United States, we historically relied upon EU-U.S. Privacy Shield and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield certifications for the transfer of personal data from the EU and Switzerland to the United States. On October 7, 2022, President Biden signed an Executive Order on Enhancing Safeguards for United States Intelligence Activities which introduced new redress mechanisms and binding safeguards to address concerns raised by the Court of Justice of the European Union, or the CJEU, in relation to data transfers from the EEA to the United States and which formed the basis of the EU-US Data Privacy Framework, or DPF, which became effective as an EU GDPR (and subsequently leveraged for use as a UK GDPR) transfer mechanism to U.S. entities self-certified under the DPF. We currently rely on the EU Standard Contractual Clauses to transfer personal data outside of the EEA. CJEU case law states that reliance on the standard contractual clauses alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances and that transfers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. On June 28, 2021, the EU Commission adopted an adequacy decision, which allows for free flow of personal data between the EEA and 45 the UK. This adequacy decision includes a sunset clause, which limits its duration to four years. During this period, the Commission could intervene at any time if the UK deviates from the level of protection currently in place. It is uncertain how data protection laws and related regulations will develop in the UK over time, and if and when the Commission might make use of this right to intervene. The UK government has introduced legislation on multiple occasions that, if enacted, could cause UK data protection law to deviate from the EU GDPR. Any restrictions on cross-border transfers of personal data could adversely impact our customers use of our platform and our business, operating results and financial condition. We may, in addition to other impacts, experience additional costs associated with increased compliance burdens following such decisions and otherwise in connection with regulatory developments and evolving guidance regarding cross-border data transfers, and we and our customers face the potential for regulators in the EEA, Switzerland, the UK and other regions to apply different standards to the transfer of personal data from those regions to the United States, and to block, or require ad hoc verification of measures taken with respect to, certain data flows to the United States. We also may be required to engage in new contract negotiations with third parties that aid in processing data on our behalf. Our means for transferring personal data from the EEA, Switzerland, the UK and other regions may not be adopted by all of our customers and may be subject to legal challenge by data protection authorities. We may also experience reluctance or refusal by customers in Europe or other regions to use our platform due to potential risk exposure. We and our customers face a risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in various jurisdictions regarding cross-border data transfers, including from and to the United States. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to evolving privacy laws on cookies, tracking technologies and e-marketing. Recent U.S. and European court and regulatory proceedings are driving increased attention to cookies and tracking technologies. If the trend of increasing proceedings by litigants and enforcement by regulators continues, this could lead to substantial costs, require significant system changes, limit the effectiveness of our marketing activities, divert the attention of our technology personnel, adversely affect our margins and subject us to additional liabilities. Our customers also expect that we comply with certain standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to standards established by third parties, such as the SSAE 18, SOC1 and SOC2 audit processes, and may demand that they be provided with an auditors report to verify our compliance. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our customers demand for our service and could harm our business. In recent years, use of AI and automated decision-making methods have come under increased regulatory scrutiny. New laws, guidance or decisions in this area could provide a new regulatory framework that could require us to adjust and may limit our ability to use our existing AI models and make changes to our operations that may decrease our operational efficiency, resulting in an increase to operating costs and/or hindering our ability to improve our services. For example, in the United States, Colorado has enacted legislation that, when effective, will restrict the use of certain AI systems, and the California Privacy Protection Agency is in the process of finalizing regulations under the CCPA regarding the use of automated decision-making and other matters. Further, in Europe, in March 2024, the EU Parliament adopted a comprehensive, risk-based governance framework for AI in the EU market, the EU AI Act. It is intended to apply to companies that develop, use and/or provide AI in the EU and includes requirements around transparency, conformity assessments and monitoring, risk assessments, human oversight, security and accuracy, and introduces significant fines for noncompliance. There are also specific obligations regarding the use of automated decision-making under the GDPR. We also expect laws, regulations, industry standards and other obligations worldwide relating to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity to continue to evolve, and that there will continue to be new, modified, and re-interpreted laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations in these areas. For example, the Network and Information Security Directive II, or NIS2, adopted in 2023, aims to enhance cybersecurity across critical infrastructure and essential services in the EU. It expands the scope of the 2016 NIS Directive to include additional sectors while enforcing stricter governance and accountability requirements. NIS2 requires all 27 EU member states to issue implementing legislation by October 2024; however, several EU member states have not finalized their respective legislation and guidance. Additionally, the Digital Operational Resiliency Act, or DORA, became effective in January 2025, and aims to establish a universal framework for managing and mitigating information and communication technology risk that will apply to entities in the financial sector and their third-party cloud service providers. 46 We cannot yet determine the impact these laws and regulations or any future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Such laws, regulations and standards are often subject to differing interpretations and these or other laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other actual or asserted requirements could reduce demand for our service, increase our costs, impair our ability to grow our business, restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our platform, core solutions or applications in some locations and may subject us to liability. Further, in view of new or modified federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other actual or asserted legal obligations, or any changes in their interpretation, we may find it necessary or desirable to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or to expend significant resources to modify our platform, core solutions or applications and otherwise adapt to these changes. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new core solutions and applications could be limited. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our platform and reduce overall demand for it, or lead to regulatory investigations and other proceedings, private claims and litigation, and significant fines, penalties or liabilities in connection with any actual or asserted noncompliance. Privacy, cybersecurity and data protection concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform, particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our obligations to customers relating to privacy, cybersecurity or data protection, any statements or commitments we make regarding privacy, data protection, cybersecurity or the processing of customer data or other data, or our other policies or obligations relating to privacy, cybersecurity or data protection, or any actual or perceived security breach or incident or other cybersecurity compromise, including any such compromise that results in the loss or unavailability of data, unauthorized access to, or use, alteration, disclosure or other processing of data, may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, claims, demands and litigation, negative publicity, harm to our reputation, and could cause a loss of customers and harm our ability to attract new customers, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet and cloud computing or changes to Internet infrastructure might diminish the demand for our platform and could have a negative impact on our business. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and might in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Regulators in some industries have also adopted, and might in the future adopt, regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of cloud-computing software. For example, some financial services regulators have imposed guidelines for the use of cloud-computing services that mandate specific controls or require financial services enterprises to obtain regulatory approval prior to using such software. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our platform in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations have imposed and might impose additional taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, or result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based products and services such as ours. In addition, the use of the Internet as a business tool could be harmed due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease-of-use, accessibility and quality of service. The performance of the Internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been harmed by bugs, viruses, worms and similar malicious programs and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the Internet is harmed by these issues, demand for our platform could decline. The current legislative and regulatory landscape regarding the regulation of the Internet is subject to uncertainty. The laws and regulations governing the Internet are continuously evolving, and compliance is costly and can require changes to our business practices and significant management time and effort. For example, in January 2025, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit struck down the FCCs 2024 order that had reinstated the FCCs 2015 net neutrality rules that had prohibited broadband providers from impeding access to most content or otherwise unfairly discriminating against content providers like us, and had also prohibited Internet service providers from entering into arrangements with specific content providers for faster or better access over their data networks. The FCCs 2015 net 47 neutrality rules had previously been repealed in 2018 by the then-Republican led FCC, and it is unlikely significant federal net neutrality rules will be adopted during the second Trump administration beyond those intended to preempt state regulation. Moreover, at the state level, several states such as California have enacted or are considering state-level legislation or executive action that would implement certain net neutrality protections, including some that go beyond those established in the FCCs 2015 net neutrality order (for example, restrictions on zero-rating, the practice whereby an Internet service provider exempts certain Internet traffic from a customers data cap). State broadband regulations have been upheld by courts in certain jurisdictions, creating the potential for a patchwork of disparate regulatory regimes whereby broadband Internet access providers may be able to block or throttle content, or charge or services or increase fees in some jurisdictions but not others, which could result in increased costs to us and/or our users, impair our ability to attract new users and materially and adversely affect our business and opportunities for growth. We cannot predict the further actions Congress, the FCC or states may take, or whether state net neutrality laws will be modified, overturned or vacated by legal action, federal legislation or the FCC, or the degree to which further regulatory action or inaction may adversely affect our business. However, without federal net neutrality rules, broadband Internet service providers may be able to limit our customers ability to access our platform or make our platform a less attractive alternative to our competitors offerings. Additionally, while the EU requires equal access to Internet content, under its Digital Single Market initiative the EU may impose additional requirements that could increase our costs. If the FCC, EU or other authorities impose rules directly or inadvertently impose costs on online providers like us, our expenses may increase. Were any of these outcomes to occur, our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers may be impaired, our costs may increase and our business may be significantly harmed. The requirements of being a public company might strain our resources, divert managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we cease to be an emerging growth company. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure