Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this report, and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategies for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview OneStream is modernizing and redefining the Office of the CFO through the Digital Finance Cloud, our AI-enabled and extensible software platform that unifies core financial functions and broader operational data and processes within a single platform. The Digital Finance Cloud empowers the Office of the CFO to form a comprehensive, dynamic and predictive view of the entire enterprise, providing corporate leaders the control, visibility and agility required to proactively adjust business strategy and day-to-day execution. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of access to our platform, either pursuant to software-as-a-service, or SaaS, contracts that we account for as subscription revenue or pursuant to perpetual or termbased software licenses that we account for as license revenue. Subscription revenue also includes cloud computing service fees and customer support and maintenance for software under our term-based and perpetual licenses. We refer to these revenue streams collectively as software revenue, which represented 94% and 92% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Software revenue is driven primarily by our number of customers, the number of users at each customer, the price of subscriptions and user licenses and renewal rates. Since 2023, customers on SaaS contracts accounted for the majority of our total revenue and more than 90% of our new customers have been on SaaS contracts. Prior to the third quarter of 2020 when we introduced our current SaaS-based model, we sold access to our platform on a perpetual or term-based license basis. We expect revenue from SaaS contracts to contribute an increasing portion of total revenue over time, but we may continue to offer licenses to certain customers in limited circumstances, such as government agencies or large enterprises in heavily regulated industries. A majority of our SaaS contracts and termbased licenses have three-year terms, although terms currently range from less than one year up to ten years. Most of our contracts are non-cancellable. We had $1,139.8 million and $1,103.9 million in remaining performance obligations as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, consisting of both billed and unbilled consideration. We also generate revenue from the sale of professional services, including consulting, implementation and configuration services and training, but we are increasingly leveraging our partners to provide these services. Professional services represented 6% and 8% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We generate the majority of our total revenue from customers located in the United States; however, revenue generated from customers outside of the United States accounted for 35% and 31% of our total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and we are focused on growing our international business. Our target customers are large and medium-sized enterprises that we believe could benefit most from our unified platform, which validates and reconciles financial and operational data from multiple legacy products, applications and modules. Our sales and marketing organization engages with prospective customers across multiple in-person and virtual channels and provides them with user conferences, platform demonstrations, application guides, whitepapers, webinars, presentations and other content to accelerate their understanding of our platform and drive greater adoption. We are highly focused on supporting our customers with the deployment, adoption and use of our platform through dedicated customer success managers. 21 In addition, we have a strong ecosystem of more than 300 go-to-market, implementation and development partners globally. Our partners serve as a significant source of lead generation and provide us with a network of trained and OneStream-certified implementation professionals. For example, we partner with boutique consulting firms and dedicated teams within larger consulting firms that have built their entire services practices around designing and implementing the OneStream platform for their clients. We also collaborate with global strategic consulting firms and global systems integrators, such as Accenture, IBM, KPMG and PwC, which introduce our platform to their clients as part of large-scale digital transformation projects as well as finance and business projects where our platform can help accelerate business initiatives and improve user experience. Our partnerships and relationships with global systems integrators have played an increasingly meaningful role in our recent growth and we expect that trend to continue. We intend to make additional investments in training and cultivating relationships with partners. On top of our core solutions, we offer a growing number of OneStream- and third-party-developed applications through the OneStream Solution Exchange. These applications extend the value of our platform beyond core financial reporting and planning for the Office of the CFO out to the operational edge, powering workflows for a diverse set of business users, including finance, sales, marketing, operations, human resources and IT professionals. The OneStream Solution Exchange includes both applications available to our customers at no additional cost, as well as fee-based applications built by us or our partners. Our business model centers on maximizing the lifetime value of a customer relationship. We recognize revenue from our SaaS contracts ratably over the term of the subscription period. We recognize the majority of the revenue from our term-based and perpetual licenses when our software is first made available to the customer or upon commencement of the license term, if later, and the remainder is attributable to maintenance and support fees recognized ratably over the contract term. In general, customer acquisition costs and other up-front costs associated with acquiring new customers are much higher in the first year of the contract, though sales commissions for SaaS agreements and sales commissions allocated to customer maintenance and support for licensed software are amortized over a five-year period. Over the lifetime of the customer relationship, we also incur sales and marketing costs related to upselling and expanding the number of users accessing our platform. However, these costs, as a percentage of revenue, are significantly less than those initially incurred to acquire the customer. As a result, the profitability of a customer to our business in any particular period depends in part on how long a customer has been a subscriber and the degree to which it has expanded the number of users of our platform. We are focused on our long-term revenue potential. We believe that our market opportunity is large, and we will continue to invest significantly in scaling across organizational functions to grow our operations, both domestically and internationally. Our continued growth will depend, in part, on our ability to grow a productive workforce across all departments of our organization to support our expanding operations, and, in part, on our ability to successfully introduce new and enhanced core solutions and applications on our platform. We therefore intend to continue to invest efficiently in growing our business to take advantage of our expansive market opportunity, while remaining focused on positive cash flow. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future performance will depend on many factors, including those described below. While these areas present significant opportunity, they also present risks that we must manage to achieve successful results. See the section titled Risk Factors. If we are unable to address these challenges, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Acquiring New Customers The most significant driver of our year-over-year software revenue growth is the signing of new customers in the preceding 12 months. We had 1,646 and 1,423 customers as of March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 16%. We define a customer as an entity with an active contract as of the measurement date; organizations with multiple divisions, segments or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. Our results of operations and growth depends in part on our ability to attract new customers and we believe there is a significant opportunity to grow our customer base. We primarily rely on our marketing efforts, direct sales force and go-to-market partners to attract new customers. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will be dependent on our ability to effectively attract, retain and train sales personnel, both domestically and internationally, particularly with experience selling to larger enterprises. Growing, educating and nurturing our partner ecosystem is also critical to our customer acquisition as we increasingly rely on partners to support the implementation of our platform and delivery of our applications. We believe a productive partner ecosystem accelerates the adoption of our platform and enables more efficient implementation. We intend to continue to invest in expanding our partnership ecosystem and in enhanced education and training for our existing partners. 22 Customer Success Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends heavily on our ability to retain our customers and increase their use cases and number of users of our platform. Our goal is 100% customer success and it drives everything we do. In addition, many of our customers serve as references for potential new customers, driving future revenue growth. We allocate our customer success and customer support resources to align with maximizing the retention and expansion of our subscription revenue. We also leverage our network of implementation partners that provide trained and OneStream-certified implementation professionals to drive customer success. Expansion Within Our Existing Customer Base Many of our customers initially deploy our platform for specific use cases and users, often within the finance organization. Our initial contract values, which tend to be high relative to many in our industry, reflect the comprehensive nature of our platform and the fact that its deployment allows customers to replace multiple legacy systems. Once customers realize the benefits and wide applicability of our platform, they typically phase in implementation of additional core solutions and applications for new use cases and additional users, including those outside the finance organization. As our customer base continues to expand, every successful adopter of our platform is an opportunity to add more use cases and users and generate incremental revenue. We therefore continue to invest in our customer success efforts to help our customers realize the full potential of our platform and thereby expand the use cases and number of users of our platform over time. In particular, customer relationships with large enterprises lead to scale and operating leverage in our business model. Compared with smaller customers, large enterprise customers present a greater opportunity for us to expand the number of users on our platform because these customers have larger budgets, a wider range of potential use cases and greater potential for migrating new workloads to our platform over time. International Expansion Revenue generated from customers outside of the United States accounted for 35% and 31% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. In addition to our offices and customers throughout the United States, we maintain offices in Australia, Europe and Singapore, and our customers are located in approximately 45 countries. We believe there is a significant opportunity to grow our international business and plan to continue to invest in personnel, office space, marketing and data center capacity to support our international growth. Innovating and Advancing Our Platform We intend to continue to invest in our research and development to expand and enhance our platforms features and capabilities to drive further adoption, both within the Office of the CFO and by users outside the finance organization. These include enhancing our platforms performance, functionality and user experience by expanding its core solutions, developing new applications and growing the OneStream Solution Exchange to maintain and extend our technology leadership. In addition, we remain committed to investing in quantitative and generative AI-enabled solutions that are purpose-built for the Office of the CFO. Mix of Subscription Revenue and License Revenue Our total revenue is affected by changes in the mix of our subscription revenue and license revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, subscription revenue and license revenue represented 92% and 3% of our total revenue, respectively, compared to 87% and 6%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of access to our platform, primarily pursuant to SaaS contracts that we account for as subscription revenue. SaaS contracts have made up more than 90% of our new customer contracts since 2023. In addition to SaaS contracts, subscription revenue also includes cloud computing service fees and customer support and maintenance for software under our term-based and perpetual licenses. We recognize revenue from our SaaS contracts, customer support and software maintenance ratably over the contract term. Before we introduced our SaaS-based model in 2020, we sold access to our platform under term-based or perpetual licenses, which we account for as license revenue. We recognize license revenue when our software is first made available to the customer or upon commencement of the license term, if later. For additional information about the components of our subscription revenue and license revenue, see the sections titled Components of Results of OperationsSubscription Revenue and License Revenue. 23 Components of Results of Operations Revenues We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of access to our platform, either pursuant to SaaS contracts that we account for as subscription revenue or pursuant to perpetual or termbased software licenses that we account for as license revenue. Subscription revenue also includes cloud computing service fees and maintenance and support related to software licenses. We also generate revenue from the sale of professional services, including consulting, implementation and configuration services and training, but we are increasingly leveraging our partners to provide these services. Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users at each customer, the price of subscriptions and renewal rates. Subscription revenue consists of revenue from SaaS contracts, cloud computing service fees and post-contract customer support, or PCS. SaaS arrangements with customers provide the customer with continuous access to our hosted platform over the contractual period. SaaS revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date access to the platform is provided, consistent with the transfer of control of the SaaS subscription to the customer. Cloud computing service fees are paid by those customers who choose to install and access their licensed software on a month-to-month subscription to a cloud hosting service offered by us, rather than manage it themselves. Our performance obligation is to provide cloud computing services on a consumption basis during the contract term and the consideration received is based on customer consumption. We invoice for cloud computing services on a monthly basis as the service is utilized. PCS includes unspecified technical enhancements, customer support and maintenance for licensed software. We recognize revenue from PCS ratably over the contractual term of the arrangement, consistent with the pattern of benefit to the customer, beginning on the date the service is made available to the customer. License Revenue License revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users at each customer, the price of user licenses and renewal rates. License revenue consists of license revenue from both our term-based and perpetual software licenses (collectively referred to as licensed software). We satisfy our performance obligation and recognize revenue for licensed software at the point in time when the customer is able to use and benefit from the software, which is generally when it is first made available to the customer or upon commencement of the license term, if later. The typical length of a customer contract for term-based licensed software is three years and customers are generally invoiced in equal annual installments at the beginning of each year within the contractual period. Professional Services and Other Revenue Professional services and other revenue consist of fees associated with implementation and consulting services and training. Professional services do not result in significant customization of the software and are considered distinct. A substantial majority of the professional service contracts are provided on a time and materials basis, and we recognize the related revenue as the service hours are performed. For time and materials projects, we invoice for services as the work is incurred. Each phase of a customer implementation generally takes one to six months to complete, depending on the scope of engagement, and most customers complete several phases of implementation to fully leverage our platform and expand its use throughout their organizations. Professional services revenue can fluctuate quarter over quarter as a result of project milestones in our contract arrangements and how they match up to customers implementation projects timeline, as well as the extent to which we leverage our partners to provide these services. Cost of Revenues Cost of Subscription Revenue Cost of subscription revenue consists of costs related to cloud computing services and supporting our customers. These expenses primarily consist of third-party direct server and cloud storage costs and employee compensation costs related to providing product support. 24 Cost of Professional Services and Other Revenue Cost of professional services and other revenue primarily consists of expenses directly related to the implementation of our software and costs to train our customers and partners. These expenses primarily consist of employee compensation costs related to implementation and training services. We expect our cost of professional services and other revenue to fluctuate as we continue to invest in our growth, but we expect it to decrease as a percentage of revenue due to our software revenue growth and our strategy of leveraging our growing partner network to provide implementation services. The cost of providing professional services has historically been higher than the associated revenue we generate, as we use professional services to help drive customer success and build our ecosystem of trained partners and customers. Gross Profit and Gross Margin; Software Gross Profit and Software Gross Margin Gross profit equals revenue less cost of revenue, and gross profit as a percentage of total revenue is referred to as gross margin. Our software gross profit, which equals our software revenue less subscription costs, was $97.3 million and $78.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our gross margin was 68% and 69% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, while our software gross margin, which is our software gross profit as a percentage of software revenue, was 76% and 77% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Gross margin and software gross margin have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the mix between revenue from SaaS contracts and term-based licenses, the timing of our acquisition of new customers and the renewal of and expansion of sales to existing customers, support and maintenance, the costs associated with operating our platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support team, the recognition of equity-based compensation and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology and infrastructure through technological improvements. In addition, we have benefited from a hybrid approach where we have evolved our cloud computing contracts and model to enable more flexibility with our cost structure and improved efficiency of our offering. We expect our gross profit and software gross profit to increase in absolute dollars as total revenue and software revenue increases. We also expect our gross margin and software gross margin to increase over time, although they may fluctuate from period to period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, sales commissions, benefits, bonuses and equity-based compensation. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, amortization of deferred commissions, variable compensation and equitybased compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include advertising costs and promotional materials and events, including our bi-annual OneStream Splash Global User Conferences, travel and entertainment, operating lease costs and related office expenses, outside services contracted for sales and marketing purposes, software and other subscriptions and dues and allocated overhead. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing over the foreseeable future as we continue to grow our business, primarily driven by increased headcount and increased spending on promotional events and product-marketing efforts. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over time as we benefit from scale in our business, although they may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our research and development staff, including salaries, benefits, variable compensation and equity-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include outside services, cloud hosting and computing costs dedicated for use by our research and development functions, operating lease costs and related office expenses, software and other subscriptions and dues and allocated overhead. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in developing technology to support our growth. We plan to increase our investment in research and development over the foreseeable future as we continue to grow our business, although research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. This expected increase in research and development expenses is primarily driven by a focus on further developing our platform. 25 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs associated with our executive, finance, legal, human resources and other support personnel, including salaries, benefits, equity-based compensation and variable compensation. General and administrative expenses also include outside services, software and other subscriptions and dues dedicated for use by our general administrative functions, operating lease costs and related office expenses, travel and entertainment, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We are incurring additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company and our Up-C structure, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations and professional services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over time as we benefit from scale in our business, although they may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription $ 125,100 $ 95,687 License 3,698 6,179 Professional services and other 7,511 8,425 Total revenue 136,309 110,291 Cost of revenues: Subscription(1) 31,487 23,106 Professional services and other(1) 12,091 10,922 Total cost of revenue 43,578 34,028 Gross profit 92,731 76,263 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 67,622 48,309 Research and development(1), (2) 35,002 16,924 General and administrative(1) 29,980 16,410 Total operating expenses 132,604 81,643 Loss from operations (39,873 ) (5,380 ) Interest income, net 5,937 1,636 Other income (expense), net 1,705 (900 ) Loss before income taxes (32,231 ) (4,644 ) Provision for income taxes 420 315 Net loss $ (32,651 ) $ (4,959 ) Less: Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests (8,635 ) Net loss attributable to OneStream, Inc. $ (24,016 ) $ (4,959 ) (1) Includes equity-based compensation expense as follows: 26 Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of subscription $ 706 $ Cost of professional services and other 2,037 Sales and marketing 13,868 356 Research and development 10,548 105 General and administrative 10,750 652 Total equity-based compensation $ 37,909 $ 1,113 (2) Amounts include certain expenses incurred with related parties. See Note 13 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. The following table presents the components of our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenues: Subscription 92 % 87 % License 3 6 Professional services and other 6 8 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenues: Subscription 23 21 Professional services and other 9 10 Total cost of revenue 32 31 Gross margin 68 69 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 50 44 Research and development 26 15 General and administrative 22 15 Total operating expenses 97 74 Loss from operations (29 ) (5 ) Interest income, net 4 1 Other income (expense), net 1 (1 ) Loss before income taxes (24 ) (4 ) Provision for income taxes 0 0 Net loss (24 ) (4 ) Less: Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests (6 ) Net loss attributable to OneStream, Inc. (18 )% (4 )% Totals of percentage of revenue may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Subscription $ 125,100 $ 95,687 31 % License 3,698 6,179 (40 ) Professional services and other 7,511 8,425 (11 ) Total revenue $ 136,309 $ 110,291 24 27 Total revenue was $136.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $110.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $26.0 million, or 24%. Subscription revenue was $125.1 million, or 92% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $95.7 million, or 87% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase of $29.4 million, or 31%, was primarily driven by the acquisition of new customers and existing customers expanding their use of our platform. License revenue was $3.7 million, or 3% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $6.2 million, or 6% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease of $2.5 million, or 40%, was primarily driven by our continued shift to a SaaS-based model from our license-based model. We generated the majority of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 from customers on SaaS contracts, and we expect revenue from our SaaS contracts to make up an increasing portion of our total revenue over time. Professional services and other revenue was $7.5 million, or 6% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $8.4 million, or 8% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease of $0.9 million was primarily driven by our strategy of leveraging our growing partner network to provide implementation services and timing of our customers implementation projects. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Subscription $ 31,487 $ 23,106 36 % Professional services and other 12,091 10,922 11 Total cost of revenue $ 43,578 $ 34,028 28 Total cost of revenue was $43.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $34.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $9.6 million, or 28%. Cost of subscription revenue was $31.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $23.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $8.4 million, or 36%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in third-party direct server and cloud storage costs of $6.0 million to accommodate higher customer demand, an increase in employee compensation costs of $1.6 million, driven by an increase in post-IPO equity-based compensation expense of $0.7 million and higher headcount, and an increase in outside services and subscriptions of $0.8 million. Cost of professional services and other revenue was $12.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $10.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $1.2 million, or 11%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in employee compensation costs of $1.5 million, driven by an increase in post-IPO equity-based compensation expense of $2.0 million, which was partially offset by lower headcount. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Software gross profit $ 97,311 $ 78,760 24 % Professional services and other gross loss (4,580 ) (2,497 ) 83 Total gross profit $ 92,731 $ 76,263 22 Software gross margin 76 % 77 % Professional services and other gross margin (61 ) (30 ) Total gross margin 68 69 Gross profit was $92.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $76.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $16.5 million, or 22%. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the acquisition of new customers and existing customers expanding their use of our platform, partially offset by an increase in post-IPO equity-based compensation expense. 28 Gross margin was 68% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to 69% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by the increase in post-IPO equity-based compensation expense and sales mix. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 67,622 $ 48,309 40 % Research and development 35,002 16,924 107 General and administrative 29,980 16,410 83 Total operating expenses $ 132,604 $ 81,643 62 Percentage of total revenue: Sales and marketing 50 % 44 % Research and development 26 15 General and administrative 22 15 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses were $67.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $48.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $19.3 million, or 40%. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in employee compensation costs of $18.6 million, related to higher post-IPO equity-based compensation expense of $13.9 million and higher headcount, and increases in outside services and software subscriptions of $0.9 million. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $35.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $16.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $18.1 million, or 107%. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in employee compensation costs of $17.6 million, related to an increase in post-IPO equity-based compensation expense of $10.5 million and higher headcount related to the DataSense acquisition, and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.3 million. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $30.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $16.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $13.6 million, or 83%. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in employee compensation costs of $11.7 million related to higher post-IPO equity-based compensation expense of $10.7 million and higher headcount, and increases in outside services and software subscription costs of $2.0 million. Other Income and Expenses Interest Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 5,937 $ 1,636 NM NM = Not Meaningful. Interest income, net was $5.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $4.3 million. The increase in interest income, net was due to higher average cash and cash equivalent balances. 29 Other Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 1,705 $ (900 ) NM NM = Not Meaningful. Other income, net was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to other expense, net of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Other income, net of $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 consists primarily of gains from foreign currency translation. Other expense, net of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 consists primarily of losses from foreign currency translation. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 420 $ 315 33 % Provision for income taxes was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.1 million, or 33%. Provision for income taxes consists primarily of current income taxes in foreign and state jurisdictions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we believe that non-GAAP operating loss and free cash flow, the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report, provide users of our financial information with additional useful information in evaluating our performance and liquidity and allows them to more readily compare our results across periods without the effect of non-cash items and other items as detailed below. Additionally, our management and board of directors use our non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance and liquidity, identify trends and make strategic decisions. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report. For example, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as alternatives to loss from operations, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Operating Loss We define non-GAAP operating loss as loss from operations adjusted for non-cash, non-operational and non-recurring items, including equity-based compensation expense, employer taxes on employee stock transactions, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. The principal limitation of non-GAAP operating loss is that it excludes significant expenses that are required by GAAP to be recorded in our consolidated financial statements, including equity-based compensation expense, employer taxes on employee stock transactions, and amortization of acquired intangible assets that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing core operations. 30 The following table provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating loss to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (39,873 ) $ (5,380 ) Equity-based compensation expense 37,909 1,113 Employer taxes on employee stock transactions 1,167 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 275 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (522 ) $ (4,267 ) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. The principal limitations of free cash flow are that it does not reflect our future capital commitments and it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. The following table provides a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 36,197 $ 25,540 Purchases of property and equipment (380 ) (690 ) Free cash flow 35,817 24,850 Net cash used in investing activities $ (380 ) $ (690 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 13,314 $ (351 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Funds Since inception we have financed operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and payments received from our customers. As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalentsof $593.9 million, which were held primarily for working capital purposes, and the undrawn portion of our credit facility of $150.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents consisted of money market funds and bank deposits. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and available borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements and known contractual obligations for at least the next 12 months. A substantial source of our cash is from our deferred revenue, as we generally invoice customers in equal annual installments at the beginning of each year within the contractual period. Deferred revenue, which is included on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as a liability, consists of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions, which we recognize as revenue as our performance obligations are satisfied in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of March 31, 2025, we had deferred revenue of $259.8 million, of which $255.3 million is recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. 31 Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of growth, subscription renewal rates, the timing and extent of spend to support research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced platform offerings and the continuing market acceptance of the platform. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies or intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. If additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Credit Facility We have a revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $150.0 million for working capital and for other general corporate purposes through October 27, 2028. As of March 31, 2025, we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Under the terms of the credit facility, we have the option to borrow funds as either a secured overnight financing rate, or SOFR, loan or an alternate base rate, or ABR, loan. Any advances drawn on the credit facility incur interest at an annual rate equal to the SOFR plus 250 basis points for SOFR loans or the ABR plus 150 basis points for ABR loans. The ABR is based on a rate per year equal to the greatest of (1) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Reserve Bank of New York rate plus 0.5% and (c) an adjusted term SOFR rate determined on the basis of a one-month interest period plus 1%. Any undrawn portion of the credit facility is subject to a fee of 0.25% per year. The credit facility is secured by substantially all our assets and contains certain negative and affirmative covenants, including financial covenants and covenants relating to the incurrence of other indebtedness, the occurrence of a material adverse change, the disposition of assets, mergers, acquisitions and investments, the granting of liens and the payment of dividends. We must also not permit the ratio of our indebtedness to total recurring revenue for the most recent trailing four quarters to exceed 0.50 to 1.00, and we are required to maintain $50.0 million in liquidity. We were in compliance with the covenants contained in the agreement as of March 31, 2025. Tax Receivable Agreement Under the TRA we are generally required to pay cash to the TRA Members, which include KKR and other Continuing Members and certain Former Members, in the amount of 85% of the applicable savings, if any, in income tax that we realize, or that we are deemed to realize, as a result of (1) certain tax attributes that are created as a result of the exchanges or redemptions of their LLC Units (calculated under certain assumptions), (2) any net operating losses available to us as a result of the Blocker Mergers, (3) tax benefits related to imputed interest and (4) payments under such TRA. We will continue to be required to make such payments to the TRA Members even after they have exchanged or redeemed all of their LLC Units. The payment obligations under the TRA are obligations of OneStream, Inc. and not of OneStream Software LLC. We expect that the payments that we will be required to make to the TRA Members will be substantial. Any payments made by us to the TRA Members will generally reduce the amount of overall cash flow that might have otherwise been available to us or to OneStream Software LLC and, to the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA for any reason, the unpaid amounts will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid by us. Our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring, deterring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combination or other changes of control. We might need to incur debt to finance payments under the TRA to the extent our cash resources are insufficient and there can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow activities for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 36,197 $ 25,540 Net cash used in investing activities (380 ) (690 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 13,314 (351 ) 32 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of $36.2 million was the result of a net loss of $32.7 million and other noncash operating activities of $0.7 million, which were more than offset by noncash charges for equity-based compensation of $37.9 million, amortization of deferred commissions of $5.7 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.0 million, and noncash operating lease expense of $0.9 million. Changes in working capital were favorable to cash flows from operating activities by $24.0 million primarily due to an increase in deferred revenue of $16.0 million, an increase in accounts payable of $8.9 million, a decrease in accounts receivable, net of $3.9 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses of $0.7 million and an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $0.6 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred commissions of $6.1 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $25.5 million was due to a net loss of $5.0 million, which was more than offset by noncash charges for amortization of deferred commissions of $4.6 million, equity-based compensation of $1.1 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million, noncash operating lease expense of $0.7 million, and other noncash items of $1.2 million. Changes in working capital were favorable to cash flows from operating activities by $22.2 million primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable, net of $17.6 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $8.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $5.4 million and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred commissions of $4.9 million and a decrease in accrued and other liabilities of $4.4 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of $0.4 million consisted entirely of cash used for purchases of property and equipment, primarily related to capitalized software costs. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $0.7 million consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment of $0.7 million, primarily related to leasehold improvements to support our expanding footprint. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 of $13.3 million consisted of proceeds from option exercises of $15.1 million, which was partially offset by payments of deferred offering costs related to our IPO of $1.8 million. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $0.4 million consisted entirely of payments of deferred offering costs related to our IPO. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2025: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 21,345 $ 3,142 $ 6,560 $ 5,051 $ 6,592 Purchase obligations 34,897 26,123 8,667 107 Total $ 56,242 $ 29,265 $ 15,227 $ 5,158 $ 6,592 In addition to the contractual obligations included in the table above, in 2022 we entered into a five-year commercial agreement with a vendor pursuant to which we have committed to purchase $300.0 million of data center, cloud and IT services with no minimum annual spending requirement. In November 2024, the agreement was amended to increase the existing purchase commitment from $300.0 million to $360.0 million. As of March 31, 2025, our total remaining commitment under this agreement was $212.4 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report in conformity with GAAP, we must make decisions that impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In reaching such decisions, we apply judgments based on our understanding and analysis of the relevant 33 circumstances, historical experience and business valuations. Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared. Our critical accounting policies are described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, if any, refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 in this report. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 34