Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward looking statements may be identified by the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "will," and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management. These statements include, without limitation, the statement that we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. The forward looking statements contained herein reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 . We disclaim any obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report, other than as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. These changes have been included in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 in the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on the Company's financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of high-performance defect inspection, process control metrology and data analysis systems used by semiconductor device manufacturers. We provide yield management solutions used in both wafer processing and final manufacturing through a family of standalone systems for both macro-defect inspection and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All of these systems feature production-worthy automation and are backed by worldwide customer support. On August 11, 2010, we announced that we had acquired selected assets of the Yield Dynamics software business from MKS Instruments, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts. The acquired business has been integrated into our Data Analysis and Review group of product offerings. The impact of the acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Rudolph's business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, cell phone and personal electronic device sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project a year-over-year increase in capital spending of approximately 5% for 2011 . We monitor capital equipment spending through announced capital spending plans 14 by our customers and monthly-published industry data such as the book-to-bill ratio. The book-to-bill ratio is a 3-month running statistic that compares bookings or orders placed with capital equipment suppliers to billings or shipments. A book-to-bill above 1.0 shows that semiconductor device equipment manufacturers are ordering equipment at a pace that exceeds the equipment suppliers' shipments for the period. The 3-month rolling average North American semiconductor equipment book-to-bill ratio was 1.0 for the month of March 31, 2011 , increasing from the December 2010 book-to-bill ratio of 0.9. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenues accounted for 50.8%, 44.4%, 44.8%, and 36.3% of our revenues, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenues to vary significantly. In addition, during a given quarter, a significant portion of our revenues may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our macro-defect inspection and probe card and test analysis systems range in average selling price from approximately $250,000 to $1.6 million per system, our transparent film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $250,000 to $1.0 million per system and our opaque film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million per system. A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from customers outside of the United States. We expect that revenues generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the revenue derived from customers outside of the United States (in percentages of total revenues): Three Months Ended March 31, Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 Asia 57.2 % 65.7 % 60.8 % 57.0 % Europe 18.0 % 11.1 % 11.6 % 19.5 % Total international revenue 75.2 % 76.8 % 72.4 % 76.5 % The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from nine to 15 months, and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenues related to these investments. Revenues. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue was $50.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to $40.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2010 , representing an increase of 24.6% in the year-over-year period. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenues in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenues: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Systems and Software: Inspection $ 23,103 46 % $ 24,330 59 % Metrology 12,182 24 % 4,279 11 % Data Analysis & Review 6,147 12 % 3,771 9 % Parts 6,240 12 % 5,557 14 % Services 2,927 6 % 2,685 7 % Total revenue $ 50,599 100 % $ 40,622 100 % The year-over-year increase in systems and software revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 is primarily due to improving economic conditions leading to increased capital spending in the semiconductor industry. This contributed to an increase in the number of metrology systems sold during the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting in an increase in metrology systems revenue of $7.9 million offset by a decrease in 15 inspection systems revenue of $1.2 million for the 2011 period. The average selling price of similarly configured systems did not significantly change. As a result, the increase in revenue is caused by increased volume rather than pricing changes. The year-over-year increase in data analysis and review software of $2.4 million is primarily due to revenue from our YDI acquisition, which is part of our Data Analysis and Review products, and which was acquired in the third quarter of 2010. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 58% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to 67% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2010 . The year-over-year increase in total parts and services revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 is primarily due to increased spending by our customers on repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenues are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenues of $6.6 million are recorded in Other current liabilities at March 31, 2011 and primarily consist of $2.1 million for systems awaiting acceptance and outstanding deliverables and $4.5 million for deferred maintenance agreements. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including inventory step-up from purchase accounting, manufacturing efficiencies, excess and obsolete inventory write-offs, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $27.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to $20.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2010 . Our gross profit represented 53.9% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and 49.9% of our revenues for the same periods in the prior year. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2010 is primarily due to increased product sales volume and product mix. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses consist of: Research and Development . Our research and development expense was $8.9 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to $7.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expense represented 17.6% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to 19.3% of revenues for the prior year period. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 in research and development expenses primarily reflects increased compensation costs associated with our annual review process, increased patent litigation costs and the inclusion of research and development expense of the YDI acquisition completed in the third quarter of 2010. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expense was $9.9 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to $9.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expense represented 19.5% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , compared to 22.2% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to increased compensation costs. The Company currently anticipates that operating expenses for the second quarter of 2011 will be approximately $21.5 million to $21.9 million. However, there can be no assurance that our operating expenses will fall within this range. Income Taxes . For the three month period s ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded an income tax provision of $1.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to forecasted utilization of federal credit carryforwards in the current year against which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. We currently have a valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that substantially all of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. We continue to closely monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. 16 Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2011 , we had $81.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $169.2 million in working capital. At December 31, 2010 , we had $71.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $159.7 million in working capital. Typically during periods of revenue growth, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a use of cash as we incur costs and expend cash in advance of receiving cash from our customers. Similarly, during periods of declining revenue, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a source of cash as inventory purchases decline and revenue from prior periods is collected. Operating activities provided $10.5 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2011 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $10.4 million , a decrease in accounts receivable of $5.4 million , an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.2 million , and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.7 million , partially offset by an increase in inventory of $5.5 million , and a decrease in other current liabilities of $1.7 million . Operating activities provided $6.8 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2010. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2010 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $5.3 million, an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $6.4 million, an increase in other current liabilities of $3.7 million, and a decrease of $0.3 million in prepaid and other assets, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $5.4 million, an increase in inventory of $2.8 million, and a decrease in other non-current liabilities of $0.7 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2011 of $0.4 million was due to capital expenditures of $0.6 million , partially offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $0.2 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2010 of $6.9 million was due to purchases of marketable securities of $7.4 million and capital expenditures of $0.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $1.2 million. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities of $0.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 was due primarily to a tax benefit from employee stock plans of $0.3 million . Net cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities of $30 thousand for the three months period ended March 31, 2010 was due to proceeds received for sales of shares through share-based compensation plans. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all or a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. In July 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3 million shares of Company common stock. As of the time of filing this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we have not purchased any shares under this program. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenues and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.