Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Form 10-Q) are forward-looking statements, including those concerning our business momentum and future growth, acceptance of our products and services, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and to strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenue, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements, our dependence on certain significant customers and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate, our proposed merger with Nanometrics Incorporated (Nanometrics), our anticipated revenue as a result of acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. 20 Table of Contents The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our expec tations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the f ollowing: variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions; seasonality and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers; the global economic and political climate s; difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance; the delivery performance of sole source vendors; the timing of future product releases; failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences; changes in pri cing by us or our competitors; our ability to manage growth; changes in management; risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable; changes in budgeted costs; our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, to weather difficul t economic environments, to open new market opportunities and to target high-margin markets; the strength/weakness of the back-end and/or front-end semiconductor market segments; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business a nd fully realize, or realize within the expected time frame, the expected combination benefits from the acquisitions; the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions and costs, burdens and restrictions associated with other governmental actions; our abilit y to integrate our business promptly and effectively with the business of Nanometrics following completion of our proposed merger with Nanometrics and to achieve the anticipated synergies and value-creation contemplated by the proposed merger; the parties ability to obtain the approval of the proposed merger by their respective stockholders and the timing of the closing of the proposed merger, including the risk that the conditions to the merger are not satisfied on a timely basis or at all and the failure of the proposed merger to close for any other reason; the risk that a consent or authorization that may be required for the proposed merger is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; unanticipated difficulties or expend itures relating to the proposed merger; the response of business partners and employees as a result of the announcement and pendency of the proposed merger; the diversion of management time in connection with the proposed merger; and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A in our 2018 Form 10-K, as supplemented by Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-K, and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this rep ort and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our 2018 10-K in the Items entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, we believe that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2018 10-K. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted the provisions of ASC 842, Leases. See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial position and results of operations and Note 6, Leasing Arrangements, to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of the impact of the adoption of ASC 842 on our financial statements and accounting policies. 21 Table of Contents Recent Developments On June 23, 2019, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger to combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction with Nanometrics, a provider of advanced process control metrology and software analytics. The transaction was unanimously approved by the board of directors of both companies and is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of customary regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of each company. We anticipate the merger to close in the second half of 2019. Under the terms of the agreement, our stockholders will receive 0.8042 shares of Nanometrics common stock for each share of our common stock. Upon completion of the merger, current Nanometrics stockholders will own approximately 50% of the combined company and our current stockholders will own approximately 50%, of the combined company. In addition, each party may be required to pay a termination fee of $26.0 million if the merger agreement is terminated under circumstances specified in the merger agreement. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we accrued $2.5 million of direct costs associated with the merger. Overview We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of process control tools that perform macro-defect inspections and metrology, lithography systems, and process control analytical software used by semiconductor and advanced packaging device manufacturers. We deliver comprehensive solutions throughout the semiconductor fabrication process with our families of proprietary products that provide critical yield-enhancing information, enabling microelectronic device manufacturers to drive down costs and time to market of their devices. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing facilities, often referred to as front-end and device packaging and test facilities, or back-end manufacturing, through a portfolio of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All of our systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. In addition, our advanced process control software portfolio includes powerful solutions for standalone tools, groups of tools, or factory-wide suites to enhance productivity and achieve significant cost savings. Our systems are backed by worldwide customer service and applications support. Our business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions, as well as other economic drivers such as personal computers, mobile devices, data centers, artificial intelligence and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project capital equipment spending to be down 16-20% for 2019 as compared to 2018. Our revenue and profitability tend to follow the trends of certain segments within the semiconductor market. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, aggregate sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenue accounted for 43.1%, 18.3%, 27.2%, and 34.5% of our revenue, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenue to vary significantly. In addition, during any given quarter, a significant portion of our revenue may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. The following table presents the average selling price range for our systems: System Average Selling Price Per System Process control $250,000 to $2.6 million Lithography steppers $2.6 million to $8.5 million A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We expect that revenue generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from six to twenty-four months and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenue related to these investments. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three and Six Month Periods Ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenue. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue of $61.5 million decreased 20.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018, in which revenue totaled $77.5 million. For the six month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our revenue totaled $122.4 million and $150.6 million, respectively, representing a year-over-year decrease of 18.7%. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenue in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenue: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, June 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Systems and Software: Process control $ 44,253 72 % $ 56,262 72 % $ 83,411 68 % $ 104,295 70 % Lithography 62 % 3,851 5 % 3,676 3 % 11,921 7 % Software licensing, support and maintenance 7,297 12 % 7,547 10 % 14,334 12 % 15,002 10 % Parts 7,073 11 % 6,758 9 % 15,150 12 % 13,742 9 % Services 2,826 5 % 3,058 4 % 5,832 5 % 5,612 4 % Total revenue $ 61,511 100 % $ 77,476 100 % $ 122,403 100 % $ 150,572 100 % Total systems and software revenue decreased $29.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018. Process control system revenue decreased $20.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower inspection system sales in the 2019 period. Lithography system revenue decreased $8.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to the shipment of a JetStep G system during the first half of 2018, which has a higher average selling price. Software revenue decreased $0.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower process control software sales. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 75% and 74% of total revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to 75% of total revenue for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018. The year-over-year increase in total parts and services revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019 is primarily due to increased spending by our customers on system upgrades and repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenue are generated from parts sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as from time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenue of $8.2 million was recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets under the caption Deferred revenue and $1.2 million was recorded under the caption Other non-current liabilities at June 30, 2019. Deferred revenue primarily consisted of $7.7 million for deferred maintenance agreements and $1.7 million for outstanding deliverables. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, system and software product mix and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $31.9 million and $63.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to $41.7 million and $84.2 million for the same period in 2018. Our gross profit represented 51.9% and 52.2% of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 53.9% and 55.9% for the same periods in 2018. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, is primarily due to lower volume of system and software sales as well as product mix. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expenses were $13.1 million and $25.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to $12.7 million and $24.5 million for the same periods in 2018. Research and development expenses represented 21.2% and 21.1% of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to 16.4% and 16.3% of revenue for the prior year periods. Research and development expenses increased for the year-over-year periods due to increases in new product initiatives. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.1 million and $24.4 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to $11.9 million and $24.7 million for the same periods in 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses represented 21.2% and 19.9% of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to 15.4% and 16.4% of our revenue for the same periods in 2018. The year-over-year dollar decrease for the six months ended June 30, 2019 in selling, general and 23 Table of Contents administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease in sales commissions and a loss recorded for the misappropriation of payroll taxes by a third-party accou ntant recorded in 2018, partially offset by accrued merger related expenses in 2019. Income Taxes . We recorded an income tax provision of $0.6 million and $1.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Our effective tax rate of 12.2% differs from the statutory rate of 21% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to a projected Foreign Derived Intangible Income Deduction from the Tax Act and federal research and development tax credits. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $2.6 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as impacts of the Tax Act, possible further tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with business combinations, and research and development tax credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income. We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded for certain foreign and state loss and credit carryforwards where the realizability of such deferred tax assets is substantially in doubt. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and development credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2019, we had $179.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $319.4 million in working capital. At December 31, 2018, we had $175.1 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $305.9 million in working capital. Operating activities provided $9.8 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June 30, 2019. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $20.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $11.1 million. Operating activities provided $9.5 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2018 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $39.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $29.6 million. Net cash and cash equivalents of $7.7 million were used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily for the purchase of marketable securities of $38.2 million and capital expenditures of $2.7 million, offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $33.2 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities of $19.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 resulted from the purchase of marketable securities of $105.7 million and capital expenditures of $2.2 million, offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $88.8 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 of $2.5 million, which resulted from payment of contingent consideration for acquired business of $1.1 million, the purchase of shares of our common stock under share repurchase authorizations of $0.7 million and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $0.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.2 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, financing activities used $1.5 million, which resulted from payment of contingent consideration for acquired business of $1.0 million, and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $1.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.5 million. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all of or a portion of the price of these investments or acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. We entered into a convertible loan agreement with Simax Precision Technologies Limited (Simax) on May 31, 2018. Simax may borrow up to $15 million in multiple promissory notes from us, subject to limitations. We expect to be a supplier of lithography modules to Simax which is focused on the manufacture, sale and service of lithography systems. As of 24 Table of Contents June 30, 2019, Si max has borrowed $5 million from us under the convertible loan agreement. See Note 8 in the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q for further information. In October 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase authorization, which allows us to repurchase up to $40 million worth of shares of our common stock. The authorization provides for repurchases to be made in the open market or through negotiated transactions from time to time. The share repurchase authorization has no expiration date and may be discontinued at any time. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased no shares and 37 thousand shares of common stock under our share repurchase authorization and those shares were subsequently retired. At June 30, 2019, there was $32,494 available for future share repurchases. Share repurchases under this plan are currently suspended until the completion of the merger with Nanometrics. For further information, see Note 18. Shares Repurchase Authorization and Note 2. Business Combinations in the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q. We have a credit agreement with a bank that provides for a line of credit that is secured by the marketable securities we have with the bank. We are permitted to borrow up to 70% of the value of eligible securities held at the time the line of credit is accessed. As of June 30, 2019, the available line of credit was approximately $93.0 million with an available interest rate of 4.0%. The credit agreement is available to us until such time that either party terminates the arrangement at its discretion. To date, we have not utilized this line of credit. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenue and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs for the next 12 months following the filing of this Form 10-Q. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.