Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward looking statements may be identified by the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, will, and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management. These statements include, without limitation, the statement that we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. The forward looking statements contained herein reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2011 . We disclaim any obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this Quarterly Report, other than as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. These changes have been included in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC, in each case in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on the Companys financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for the Three Month Period Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of high-performance defect inspection, process control metrology and data analysis systems used by semiconductor device manufacturers. We provide yield management solutions used in both wafer processing and final manufacturing through a family of standalone systems for both macro-defect inspection and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All of these systems feature production-worthy automation and are backed by worldwide customer support. Rudolphs business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, tablet, cell phone, other personal electronic devices and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project a year-over-year decrease in capital spending of 0-10% for 2012. Our revenue and profitability, tend to closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market. We monitor capital equipment spending through announced capital spending plans by our customers and monthly-published industry data such as the book-to-bill ratio. The book-to-bill ratio is a 3-month running statistic that compares bookings or orders placed with capital equipment suppliers to billings or shipments. A book-to-bill above 16 Table of Contents 1.0 shows that semiconductor device equipment manufacturers are ordering equipment at a pace that exceeds the equipment suppliers shipments for the period. The 3-month rolling average North American semiconductor equipment book-to-bill ratio was 1.13 at March 31, 2012 , an increase from the book-to-bill ratio of 0.9 at December 31, 2011 . Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and for the years ended December 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenues accounted for 57.8% , 43.6% , 44.4% , and 44.8% of our revenues, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenues to vary significantly. In addition, during a given quarter, a significant portion of our revenues may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our macro-defect inspection and probe card and test analysis systems range in average selling price from approximately $250,000 to $1.7 million per system, our transparent film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $250,000 to $1.0 million per system and our opaque film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million per system. A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from customers outside of the United States. We expect that revenues generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the revenue derived from customers outside of the United States (in percentages of total revenues): Three Months Ended March 31, Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 Asia 69.0 % 51.3 % 65.7 % 60.8 % Europe 10.5 % 20.4 % 11.1 % 11.6 % Total international revenue 79.5 % 71.7 % 76.8 % 72.4 % The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from nine to 15 months , and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenues related to these investments. Revenues. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue was $45.7 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to $50.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 , representing a decrease of 9.7% in the year-over-year period. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenues in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenues: Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Systems and Software: Inspection $ 22,856 50 % $ 23,103 46 % Metrology 10,237 22 % 12,182 24 % Data Analysis and Review 4,547 10 % 6,147 12 % Parts 5,504 12 % 6,240 12 % Services 2,565 6 % 2,927 6 % Total revenue $ 45,709 100 % $ 50,599 100 % The year-over-year decrease in systems and software revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 is primarily due to some of our customers delaying purchases due to changes in demands for their products and uncertainty in the global economy. The number of metrology and inspection systems sold during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 decreased as compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting in an decrease in metrology systems and inspection systems revenue of $1.9 million and $0.2 million for the 2012 period. The year-over-year decrease in data analysis and review software revenue 17 Table of Contents for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 of $1.6 million is primarily due to decreased sales across all data analysis and review software product families. As a result, the decrease in revenue for the 2012 period was caused by decreased volume rather than pricing changes. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 58% of total revenues for both the three month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 . The year-over-year decrease in total parts and services revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 is primarily due to decreased spending by our customers on repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenues are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenues of $7.4 million are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet with the caption Other current liabilities at March 31, 2012 and primarily consist of $2.4 million for systems awaiting acceptance and outstanding deliverables and $5.0 million for deferred maintenance agreements. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, excess and obsolete inventory write-offs, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $23.8 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to $27.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 . Our gross profit represented 52.0% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and 53.9% of our revenues for the same periods in the prior year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2011 is primarily due to product mix, which included lower software sales. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expense was $9.8 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to $8.9 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expense represented 21.4% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to 17.6% of revenues for the prior year period. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 in research and development expenses primarily reflects increased compensation costs and project costs. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expense was $9.2 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to $9.9 million for the same period in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expense represented 20.1% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , compared to 19.5% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar decrease for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to decreased compensation and corporate litigation costs. The Company currently anticipates that operating expenses for the second quarter of 2012 will be approximately $19.0 million to $20.0 million . However, there can be no assurance that our operating expenses will fall within this range. Income Taxes . For the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , we recorded an income tax provision of $1.0 million as compared to the income tax provision of $1.4 million for the comparable period in 2011 . Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to forecasted utilization of federal credit carryforwards in the 2011 year against which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to closely monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Litigation. As discussed in Part II, Item 1 (Legal Proceedings), the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims, which includes, among other things, its on-going litigation with ITC. Management cannot determine whether its potential losses with ITC discussed in Item 3 are reasonably likely to occur. In the event that the ultimate decision in the ITC Litigation results in a judgment of damages against the Company at the high end of the identified ranges, such result is likely to have a material impact on the Companys results of operations and may also have a material impact on the Companys liquidity and financial condition. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012 , we had $173.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $239.8 million in 18 Table of Contents working capital. At December 31, 2011 , we had $167.6 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $234.2 million in working capital. Typically during periods of revenue growth, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a use of cash as we incur costs and expend cash in advance of receiving cash from our customers. Similarly, during periods of declining revenue, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a source of cash as inventory purchases decline and revenue from prior periods is collected. Operating activities provided $6.9 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $6.0 million , an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $4.9 million , and a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.2 million , partially offset by increase in inventory of $3.1 million , an increase in prepaid and other assets of $1.6 million , and a decrease in other current liabilities of $1.4 million . Operating activities provided $10.5 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2011 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $10.4 million , a decrease in accounts receivable of $5.4 million , an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.2 million , and a decrease in prepaid and other assets of $0.7 million , partially offset by an increase in inventory of $5.5 million , and a decrease in other current liabilities of $1.7 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 of $14.1 million was due to the purchase of marketable securities of $31.8 million and capital expenditures of $0.5 million , partially offset by the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $18.2 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2011 of $0.4 million was due to capital expenditures of $0.6 million , partially offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $0.2 million . Net cash and cash equivalents provided by financing activities of $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was due to a tax benefit from employee stock plans. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all or a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. In July 2008 , our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3,000 shares of Company common stock. As of the time of filing this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we have not purchased any shares under this program. On July 25, 2011 , the Company issued $60 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% convertible senior notes, which mature on July 15, 2016 and pay interest semiannually commencing on January 15, 2012 . In connection with the issuance, the Company entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions. The convertible note hedge transaction is intended to reduce potential dilution in the Companys stock upon conversion of the notes. However, the warrant transaction will have a dilutive effect on the Companys earnings per share to the extent that the price of the Companys common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrant. Net proceeds realized from the sale of the convertible senior notes, the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were $50.2 million . We intend to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include financing potential acquisitions and strategic transactions, growth initiatives and working capital. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenues and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.