ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this document that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding future periods, financial results, revenues, margins, growth, customers, tax rates, product performance, and the impact of accounting rules on our business and the future implications of our statements regarding goals, strategy, and similar terms. We may identify these statements by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, may, might, project, will, and other similar expressions. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements, except as may otherwise be required by law. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which may be difficult to predict or beyond our control, including those factors referenced in this document, and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 3, 2017 (our Annual Report). In particular, our results could vary significantly based on: changes in customer and industry spending; rate and extent of changes in product mix; adoption of new products; timing of orders, shipments, and acceptance of products; our ability to secure volume supply agreements; and general economic conditions. In evaluating our business, investors should carefully consider these factors in addition to any other risks and uncertainties set forth elsewhere. The occurrence of the events described in the risk factors of our Annual Report and elsewhere in this report as well as other risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While management believes that the discussion and analysis in this report is adequate for a fair presentation of the information presented, we recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with (i) our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, which were included in our Annual Report, (ii) the section captioned Risk Factors in our Annual Report, and (iii) our other filings with the SEC. Overview Together with our subsidiaries, we are a leading provider of advanced, high-performance process control metrology and inspection systems used primarily in the fabrication of semiconductors and other solid-state devices, including sensors, optoelectronic devices, high-brightness LEDs (HB-LED), discretes, and data storage components. Our automated and integrated metrology systems measure critical dimensions, device structures, topography and various thin film properties, including three-dimensional features and film thickness, as well as optical, electrical and material properties. Our process control solutions are deployed throughout the fabrication process, from front-end-of-line substrate manufacturing, to high-volume production of semiconductors and other devices, to advanced three-dimensional wafer-level packaging applications. Our systems enable advanced process control for device manufacturers, providing improved device yield at reduced manufacturing cycle time, supporting accelerated product life cycles in the semiconductor and other device markets. Principal factors that impact our revenue growth include capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors to increase capacity and to enable their development of new technologies, and our ability to improve market share. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well as to evaluate strategic acquisitions to address business challenges and opportunities. Our revenues are derived primarily from product sales but are also derived from customer service and system upgrades for the installed base of our products. For the three months ended April 1, 2017, we derived 81% of our total net revenues from product sales and upgrades, and 19% of our total net revenues from services. Nanometrics Products We offer a diverse line of systems to address the broad range of process control requirements of the semiconductor manufacturing industry. In addition, we believe that our product development and engineering expertise, as well as strategic acquisitions will enable us to develop and offer advanced process control solutions that, in the future, should address industry advancement and trends. Automated Systems Our automated systems primarily consist of fully automated metrology systems that are employed in semiconductor production environments. The Atlas III, Atlas II+ and Atlas XP/Atlas XP + represent our line of high-performance metrology systems providing 21 op tical critical dimension (OCD ), thin film metrology and wafer stress for transistor and interconnect metrology applications. The OCD technology is supported by our NanoCD suite of solutions including our NanoDiffract software and NanoGen TM scalable co mputing engine that enables visualization, modeling, and analysis of complex structures. The UniFire TM system measures multiple parameters at any given process step in the advanced packaging process flow for critical dimension, overlay, and topography appl ications and has recently added inspection capabilities for both front-end-of-line (FEOL) patterned wafer and advanced packaging related applications. Integrated Systems Our integrated metrology (IM) systems are installed directly onto wafer processing equipment to provide near real-time measurements for improved process control and maximum throughput. Our IM systems are sold directly to end customers. The IMPULSE+ and IMPULSE represent our latest metrology platform for OCD and thin film metrology, and have been successfully qualified on numerous independent Wafer Fabrication Equipment Suppliers platforms. Our NanoCD suite of solutions is sold in conjunction with our IMPULSE systems. Our Trajectory system provides in-line measurement of layers in thin film thickness and composition in semiconductor applications and is qualified in production with major device makers. Materials Characterization Our materials characterization products include systems that are used to monitor the physical, optical, electrical and material characteristics of discrete electronic industry, opto-electronic, HB-LED, solar photovoltaics, compound semiconductor, strained silicon and silicon-on-insulator (SOI) devices, including composition, crystal structure, layer thickness, dopant concentration, contamination and electron mobility. The RPMBlue is our photoluminescence mapping system designed specifically for the HB-LED market, and is complemented by the RPMBlue-FS, enabling a breadth of research and development configurability. We sell Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) automated and manual systems in the QS2200/3300 and QS1200 respectively. The NanoSpec line, including the NanoSpec II, supports thin film measurement across all applications in both low volume production and research applications. We are continually working to strengthen our competitive position by developing new technologies and products in our market segment. We have expanded our product offerings to address growing applications within the semiconductor manufacturing and adjacent industries. In pursuit of our goals, we have: Introduced new products, applications, and upgrades in every core product line and primary market served; Diversified our product line and served markets through acquisitions, such as: the 2006 acquisition of Accent Optical Technologies, Inc., a supplier of overlay and thin film metrology and process control systems; the 2008 acquisition of Tevet Process Control Technologies (Tevet), an integrated metrology supplier; the 2009 acquisition of the UniFire product line from Zygo Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of AMETEK, Inc.; and the 2011 acquisition of Nanda Technologies GmbH, a supplier of high sensitivity, high throughput defect inspection systems; Continued development of new measurement and inspection technologies for advanced fabrication processes and packaging. 22 Important Themes and Significant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by new manufacturing processes (node) coming to market every two to three years. At every new node in the semiconductor industry, our customers drive the need for metrology as a major component of device manufacturing. These trends include: Proliferation of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes . Device dimensions must be carefully controlled during each step of processing. These patterned structures are measured at many subsequent production stops including Chemical Mechanical Polishing, Etch, and Thin Film processing, all driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state-of-the-art devices. Nanometrics OCD technology is broadly adopted across NAND, DRAM, and logic semiconductor manufacturing processes. Proliferation of 3D Transistor Architectures . Our end customers continue to improve device density and performance by scaling front-end-of-line transistor architectures. Many of these designs, including FinFET transistors, have buried features and high aspect ratio stacked features that enable improved performance and density. The advanced designs require additional process control to manage the complex shapes and materials properties, driving additional applications of our systems. Proliferation of High-Density 3D-NAND . Our end customers have migrated to multi (many) layered high aspect ratio 3D-NAND devices. Many stacks of NAND cells are formed in parallel. These 3D-NAND architecture enables cost effective density scaling, removing the burden of density from lithography to deposition and etch processes. These devices require additional process control of deposition stacks, planarization processes, and critical high aspect ratio etch processes. Nanometrics thin films and OCD technologies are adopted across the 3D-NAND process including the periphery CMOS processing, NAND cell formation, and Interconnect of the devices. Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials . The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to new materials and processing methods with single atom/sub nanometer control over these processes. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies . Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting, shorter product life cycles and time to market, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and automated systems throughout the fabrication process to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations, impairment and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended April 1, 2017. Please refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report for a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects or anticipated effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Results of Operations Net Revenues Our net revenues comprised the following product lines (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Change Automated systems $ 34,668 $ 28,614 $ 6,054 21.2 % Integrated systems 9,475 8,293 1,182 14.3 % Materials characterization systems 4,032 2,307 1,725 74.8 % Total product revenue 48,175 39,214 8,961 22.9 % Service 11,139 8,275 2,864 34.6 % Total net revenues $ 59,314 $ 47,489 $ 11,825 24.9 % For the three months ended April 1, 2017, total net revenues increased by $11.8 million relative to the comparable 2016 period. The increase was primarily attributable to $9.0 million increase in product revenue and $2.8 million increase in service revenue. The increase in product revenue is primarily driven by higher Automated System sales (principally the Atlas line), which increased by $6.1 million due primarily to a higher revenue from our customers in the Foundry markets. The increase in service revenue is primarily driven by higher billable service, contract and spares revenue, as a result of our increasing installed base. Capital spending by our customers is dependent on the timing of new semiconductor fabrication plants, capacity expansion within existing plants, and the adoption of new technology for current and future manufacturing needs. Future results will vary significantly based on changes in any of these factors. With a significant portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity located in Asia, a substantial portion of our revenues continue to be generated in that region. Although sales to customers within individual countries of that region will vary from time to time, we expect that a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in Asia. Gross margin Our gross margin breakdown was as follows: Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Products 47.0 % 52.8 % Service 52.1 % 45.8 % The calculation of product gross margin includes both cost of products and amortization of intangibles. The gross margin on product revenue decreased to 47.0% in the three months ended April 1, 2017 from 52.8% in the three months ended March 26, 2016, reflecting a decrease of 5.8 percentage points from the comparable 2016 period. The decrease in the first quarter of 2017 was due to a less favorable product and customer mix, and higher installation and warranty costs. The gross margin on our services business increased to 52.1% in the three months ended April 1, 2017 from 45.8% in the three months ended March 26, 2016, reflecting an improvement in margin of 6.3 percentage points. The increase in service business gross margin in the three months ended April 1, 2017 is attributable to the increased spares revenue, improved service costs, as well as, higher service labor utilization. Operating expenses Our operating expenses comprised the following categories (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Change Research and Development $ 8,694 $ 8,068 $ 626 7.8 % Selling 7,938 7,249 689 9.5 % General and administrative 6,307 5,420 887 16.4 % Amortization of intangible assets 24 (24 ) -100.0 % Total operating expenses $ 22,939 $ 20,761 $ 2,178 10.5 % 24 Research and development Investments in research and development personnel and associated projects are part of our strategy to ensure our products remain competitive and meet customers needs. For the three months ended April 1, 2017, research and development costs increased by $0.6 million or 7.8%, compared to the same period in 2016. The increase is driven by higher variable compensation costs and program related expenses for our research and development investments, primarily focused on our next generation systems and platforms. Selling Selling expenses increased by $0.7 million or 9.5% in the three months ended April 1, 2017 compared to the same periods in 2016. The increase was due to a higher travel expenditures and increased variable compensation costs. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $0.9 million or 16.4% in the three months ended April 1, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 26, 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher variable compensation costs and higher legal expenditures, professional and audit services. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets included in operating expenses in the three months ended April 1, 2107 compared to the three months ended March 26, 2016 decreased as a result of the full amortization of certain intangible assets. Other income, net. Our other income, net, consisted of the following items (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Change Interest Income $ 1 $ 9 $ (8 ) -88.9 % Interest Expense (40 ) (117 ) 77 -65.8 % Other income (expense) (3 ) 225 (228 ) -101.3 % Total other income (expense), net $ (42 ) $ 117 $ (159 ) -135.9 % Other income (expense) decreased by $0.2 million in the three months ended April 1, 2017 relative to the comparable 2016 period. These changes were principally due to the revaluation of inter-company balances based on fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, and hedging gains and losses. Provision for income taxes. We recorded a tax provision of $0.1 million and $0.4 million in three months ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016, respectively. The decrease in the tax provision for 2017 from 2016 was primarily related to a one-time benefit for an entity classification change and a tax benefit associated with the settlement of equity options/awards offset by an increase in our earnings for the three months ended April 1, 2017. Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended April 1, 2017 of $0.1 million reflects an effective tax rate of 2.1%. The tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2017 differs from the Federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to all our foreign income being subject to tax at lower rates, a one-time tax benefit related to an entity classification change, tax benefits associated with the settlement of equity options/awards, and tax benefits from federal R&D credits. As of April 1, 2017, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against our California and certain foreign deferred tax assets as a result of uncertainties regarding the realization of the asset due to cumulative losses and uncertainty of future taxable income. We will continue to assess the realizability of the deferred tax assets in each of the applicable jurisdictions and maintain the valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support a reversal. In the event we determine that the deferred tax assets are realizable, an adjustment to the valuation allowance will be reflected in the tax provision for the period such determination is made. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states including California, and foreign jurisdictions including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and China. Due to tax attribute carry-forwards, we are subject to examination for tax years 2003 forward for U.S. tax purposes. We are also subject to examination in various states for tax years 2002 forward. We are subject to examination for tax years 2007 forward for various foreign jurisdictions. 25 We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. The total amount of penalties and interest were not material as of April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016. During the next twelve months, we anticipate increases in our unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.4 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and cash flow generated from our operations. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including those that relate to our specific operations and those that relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the sectors of the semiconductor industry in which we operate in. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, combined with cash currently projected to be generated from our operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next twelve months. The following tables present selected financial information and statistics as of April 1, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and for the three months ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016 (in millions): As of April 1, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 132.1 $ 130.0 Working capital $ 183.8 $ 174.4 April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Cash provided by operating activities $ 3.1 $ 0.5 Cash used in investing activities $ (1.8 ) $ (0.4 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (0.5 ) $ 0.2 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $132.1 million at April 1, 2017, which reflects an increase of $2.1 million when compared to $130.0 million at December 31, 2016. Of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at April 1, 2017, approximately $11.0 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, a portion of which would have to be repatriated to the United States. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds and do not rely on unrepatriated earnings as a source of funds for our domestic business. We believe we have sufficient cash flow and borrowing capacity in the United States to fund our domestic operations and strategic needs. Working capital was $183.8 million at April 1, 2017, which reflects an increase of $9.4 million when compared to $174.4 million at December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to increase in cash and cash equivalents, and increases in accounts receivables and inventories, partially offset by increases in accounts payables and current deferred revenue balances. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2017 was $3.1 million, consisting primarily of net income of $5.4 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $4.0 million, partially offset by $6.3 million of net cash outflows related to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities is generally driven by the timing of our customer payments for accounts receivable and timing of our vendor payments for accounts payable. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods due to several factors, including variations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections performance, inventory and supply chain management, vendor payment initiatives, tax benefits or charges from stock-based compensation, and the timing and amount of compensation and other payments. Cash used in investing activities of $1.8 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 consisted primarily of $36.5 million purchases of marketable securities and acquisition of property, plant and equipment of $0.1 million, net of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $34.8 million. Cash used in financing activities of $0.5 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 consisted primarily of $1.7 million cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options of $1.2 million. 26 Cash provided by operating activities of $0.5 million during the three months ended March 26, 20 16 was a result of $3.5 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $4.6 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.6 million. Cash used in investing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 26 , 2016 consisted primarily of cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.6 million, partially offset by cash provided by maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $0.2 million. Cash provided by financing activities of $0.2 mil lion during the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted primarily of royalty and other payments to Zygo of $0.1 million, and cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards of $0.7 million, offset by $1.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of co mmon stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 1, 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of our business from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.