Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Rudolph Technologies, Inc. (the Company or Rudolph) are forward-looking statements, including those concerning our business momentum and future growth, acceptance of our products and services, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and 18 Table of Contents expectations and to strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenue, gross profits, research and development and engineering expens es, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements, our dependence on certain significant customers and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate, our anticipated revenue as a result of acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation. The statements contained in this Quart erly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and within the mean ing of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will and words or phrases of s imilar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our expectations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions, seasonality and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers, the global economic and political climates, difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance, the delivery performance of sole source vendors, the timing of future product releases, failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences, changes in pricing by us or our competitors, our ability to manage growth, changes in management, risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable, changes in budgeted costs, our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, our ability to weather difficult economic environments, our ability to open new market opportunities and target high-margin markets, the strength/weakness of the back-end and/or front-end semiconductor market segments, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business and fully realize, or realize within the expected time frame, the expected combination benefits from the acquisitions, and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (2017 10-K) and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our 2017 10-K in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, we believe that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2017 10-K. During the first quarter ended March 31, 2018, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial position and results of operations and Note 2, Revenue, in the footnotes to the financial statements, related to the impact of the adoption on the Companys financial statements and accounting policies. 19 Table of Contents Overview We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of process control tools that perform macro defect inspections and metrology, lithography systems and process control analytical software used by semiconductor and advanced packaging device manufacturers. We deliver comprehensive solutions throughout the semiconductor fabrication process with our families of proprietary products that provide critical yield-enhancing information, enabling microelectronic device manufacturers to drive down costs and time to market of their devices. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing facilities, often referred to as front-end and device packaging and test facilities, or back-end manufacturing, through a portfolio of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, as well as transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All of our systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. In addition, our advanced process control software portfolio includes powerful solutions for standalone tools, group of tools, or factory-wide suites to enhance productivity and achieve significant cost savings. Our systems are backed by worldwide customer support. Our business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions, as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, tablet, cell phone, wearable devices, other personal electronic devices and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project capital equipment spending to be flat to down 1% for 2018. Our revenue and profitability tend to follow the trends of certain segments within the semiconductor market. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, aggregate sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenue accounted for 50.9%, 27.2%, 34.5%, and 23.3% of our revenue, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or a cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenue to vary significantly. In addition, during any given quarter, a significant portion of our revenue may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems, with two customers each accounting for 10% or more of our revenue. One customer accounted for 14.2% and another 11.2% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The following table lists the average selling price for our systems: System Average Selling Price Per System Process control $250,000 to $2.1 million Lithography steppers $3.0 million to $8.5 million A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We expect that revenue generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from six to twenty-four months and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenue related to these investments. Results of Operations for the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue of $73.1 million increased 20.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, in which revenue totaled $60.7 million. 20 Table of Contents The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenue in dollars (thousands) and as per centages of our total revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Systems and Software: Process control $ 48,033 66 % $ 43,876 72 % Lithography 8,069 11 % 17 % Software licensing, support and maintenance 7,455 10 % 7,498 13 % Parts 6,985 10 % 6,330 10 % Services 2,554 3 % 2,958 5 % Total revenue $ 73,096 100 % $ 60,679 100 % Total systems and software revenue increased $12.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Process control system revenue increased $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to higher metrology system sales in the 2018 period. Lithography system revenue increased $8.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the shipment of a JetStep G system during the first quarter of 2018. Software revenue decreased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 76% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 69% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The year-over-year increase in total parts and services revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to increased spending by our customers on system upgrades and repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenue are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as from time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenue of $7.9 million were recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet within the caption Deferred revenue and $0.9 million were recorded in Other non-current liabilities at March 31, 2018. Deferred revenue primarily consisted of $5.2 million for deferred maintenance agreements and $3.6 million for outstanding deliverables. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, system and software product mix and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $42.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $31.9 million for the same period in 2017. Our gross profit represented 58.0% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, gross profit represented 52.5% of our revenue. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, is primarily due to the sale of a lithography system that had been previously written down in purchase accounting. We expect our gross profit to be in the range of 53.0% to 54.0% for the second quarter ended June 30, 2018. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expenses were $11.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $12.0 million for the same period in 2017. Research and development expenses represented 16.1% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 19.8% of revenue for the prior year period. Research and development expenses decreased for the three month period year-over-year due to decreases in litigation and project costs. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $12.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $9.7 million for the same period in 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses represented 17.5% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 15.9% of our revenue for the same period in 2017. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three months ended March 31, 2018 in selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to an increase in compensation costs, a loss contingency accrual recorded for the possible misappropriation of payroll taxes by a third party accountant and an increase in sales commissions. Income Taxes . We recorded an income tax provision of $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Our effective tax rate of 14.4% differs from the statutory rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which provides for a projected foreign derived intangible 21 Table of Contents income deduction and the federal research and development credit. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we recorded an income tax provision of $2.5 million. Upon enactment, among other things, the 2017 Tax Act lowered the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time transition tax on foreign unremitted earnings. The lower U.S. corporate income tax rate is effective January 1, 2018; however the U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were re-measured in 2017 when the 2017 Tax Act was enacted. Also in 2017, as part of the transition to the new territorial tax system, the 2017 Tax Act imposed a one-time tax on deemed repatriation of foreign subsidiaries earnings. At March 31, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the 2017 Tax Act; however, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects. The total provisional impact of the 2017 Tax Act summarized below, which is in cluded as a component of the provision from income taxes, is further described in Note 11 in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (dollars in thousands). Three Months Ended Year Ended March 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Re-measurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities $ $ 8,020 Transition tax on non-U.S. subsidiaries earnings 1,450 Foreign tax credits applied against transition tax (1,556 ) Valuation allowance for unused foreign tax credits 1,542 Foreign Derived Intangible Income (3,083 ) Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (net of Foreign Tax Credit) 132 Interest Expense Deduction Limitation Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax Total impact of the 2017 Tax Act on the provision for income taxes $ (2,951 ) $ 9,456 We are continuing to assess the impact of the 2017 Tax Act and may record adjustments in 2018 as additional analysis is completed and as we gain a more thorough understanding of the legislation. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as future impacts of the 2017 Tax Act, new tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, and non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income. We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded for certain foreign and state loss and credit carryforwards where the realizability of such deferred tax assets is substantially in doubt. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and development credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2018, we had $180.3 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $296.9 million in working capital. At December 31, 2017, we had $177.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $279.8 million in working capital. Operating activities provided $4.6 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily resulted from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $19.5 million, offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $14.9 million. Operating activities provided $14.2 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily resulted from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $11.1 million and an increase in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million. 22 Table of Contents Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $4.2 million resulted from the purchase of marketable securities of $57.1 million and capital expenditures of $1.4 million, offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $54.4 million. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $1.2 million resulted from the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $25.4 million, offset by the purchase of marketable securities of $22.4 million and capital expenditures of $1.7 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $0.7 million was due primarily to tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $0.8 million, offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, financing activities used $1.7 million, which resulted primarily from the redemption of stock warrants of $1.0 million and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $0.8 million, offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.1 million. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all of a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. In January 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 3.0 million shares of our common stock with no established end date. The authorization allows for repurchases to be made in the open market or through negotiated transactions from time to time. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock pursuant to the shares repurchase authorization. At March 31, 2018, there were 0.7 million shares available for future stock repurchases under this share repurchase authorization. Shares of common stock purchased under the share repurchase authorization are retired. For further information, see Note 15 in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We have a credit agreement with a bank that provides for a line of credit that is secured by the marketable securities we have with the bank. We are permitted to borrow up to 70% of the value of eligible securities held at the time the line of credit is accessed. As of March 31, 2018, the available line of credit was approximately $99 million with an available interest rate of 3.3%. The credit agreement is available to us until such time that either party terminates the arrangement at their discretion. To date, we have not utilized this line of credit. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenue and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs for the next twelve months following the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.