Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements, including those concerning our business momentum and future growth, the benefit to customers and market acceptance of our products and customer service, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenues, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate, our anticipated revenue as a result of recent acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation, including ongoing litigation with ITC. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our current expectations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers, the global economic and political climates, difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance, the delivery performance of sole source vendors, the timing of future product releases, failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences, changes in pricing by us or our competitors, our ability to manage growth, risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable, changes in budgeted costs, our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, our ability to weather difficult economic environments, our ability to open new market opportunities and target high-margin markets, the strength/weakness of the back-end and /or front-end semiconductor market segments, our ability to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses into our business and fully realize, or realize within the expected time frame, the expected combination benefits from the acquisition, and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 . The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. These changes have been included in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of defect inspection, advanced packaging lithography, process control metrology, and data analysis systems and software used by semiconductor device manufacturers. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing and final manufacturing through a family of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All Rudolph systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. Rudolph systems are backed by worldwide customer support. Rudolphs business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, tablet, cell phone, other personal electronic devices and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project a year-over-year decrease in capital spending of 10% for 2013. We monitor capital equipment spending through announced capital spending plans by our customers and monthly-published industry data such as the book-to-bill ratio. The book-to-bill ratio is a 3-month running statistic that compares bookings or orders placed with capital equipment suppliers to billings or shipments. A book-to-bill above 1.0 shows that semiconductor device equipment manufacturers are ordering equipment at a pace that exceeds the equipment suppliers shipments for the period. The 3-month rolling average North American semiconductor equipment book-to-bill ratio was 1.1 at March 31, 2013 , an increase from the book-to-bill ratio of 0.9 at December 31, 2012 . Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three month period ended March 31, 2013 and for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenues accounted for 40.1% , 50.9% , 43.6% , and 44.4% of our revenues, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenues to vary significantly. In addition, during a given quarter, a significant portion of our revenues may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our macro-defect inspection and probe card and test analysis systems range in average selling price from approximately $250,000 to $1.7 million per system; our transparent film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $800,000 to $1.2 million per system; our opaque film measurement systems range in average selling price from approximately $1.0 million to $1.8 million per system; and our lithography steppers range in average selling price from approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million per system. A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from customers outside of the United States. We expect that revenues generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the revenue derived from customers outside of the United States (in percentages of total revenues): Three Months Ended March 31, Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 Asia 65.1 % 67.3 % 51.3 % 65.7 % Europe 12.4 % 13.4 % 20.4 % 11.1 % Total international revenue 77.5 % 80.7 % 71.7 % 76.8 % The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from six to 15 months , and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenues related to these investments. Revenues. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue was $41.7 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to $45.7 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 , representing a decrease of 8.9% in the year-over-year periods. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenues in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenues: 18 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Systems and Software: Inspection $ 24,879 60 % $ 22,856 50 % Metrology 288 1 % 10,237 22 % Lithography 3,700 9 % % Data Analysis and Review 4,157 10 % 4,547 10 % Parts 5,546 13 % 5,504 12 % Services 3,080 7 % 2,565 6 % Total revenue $ 41,650 100 % $ 45,709 100 % The year-over-year decrease in systems revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 is primarily due to decreased customer demand for metrology systems during the first quarter of 2013 . The number of inspection systems sold during the three month period ended March 31, 2013 increased as compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting in an increase in inspection systems revenue of $2.0 million for the 2013 period. The number of metrology systems sold during the three month period ended March 31, 2013 decreased as compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting in a decrease in metrology systems revenue of $9.9 million for the 2013 period. The year-over-year increase in lithography system revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 of $3.7 million is due to our entrance into the lithography market in the 2013 period. The year-over-year decrease in data analysis and review software revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 of $0.4 million is primarily due to decreased sales in licensing and consulting revenue. As a result, the decrease in revenue for the 2013 period was caused by decreased volume rather than pricing changes. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 67% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to 58% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 . The year-over-year increase in total parts and services revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 is primarily due to increased spending by our customers on system upgrades and repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenues are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenues of $9.8 million are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within the caption Other current liabilities at March 31, 2013 and primarily consist of $2.2 million for systems awaiting acceptance and outstanding deliverables and $7.6 million for deferred maintenance agreements. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, excess and obsolete inventory write-offs, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $21.9 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to $23.8 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 . Our gross profit represented 52.5% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 and 52.0% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in the prior year is primarily due to product mix, which included higher advanced packaging sales and a greater proportion of software sales. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expense was $9.7 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to $9.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expense represented 23.3% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to 21.4% of revenues for the prior year period. The year-over-year dollar decrease for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 in research and development expenses primarily reflects decreased compensation and project costs, partially offset by the inclusion of research and development expenses for NanoPhotonics and Azores, which were acquired during the latter part of 2012 . Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expense was $10.3 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to $9.2 million for the same period in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expense represented 24.6% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , compared to 20.1% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to the inclusion of 19 Table of Contents selling, general and administrative expenses for NanoPhotonics and Azores, which were acquired in the latter part of 2012, partially offset by lower compensation costs. Income Taxes . For the three month period ended March 31, 2013 , we recorded an income tax benefit of $0.6 million as compared to a tax provision of $1.0 million for the comparable period in 2012 . Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to recording a discrete event for research and development tax credit for 2012. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was passed by Congress and signed into law in January. The provisions under this law were made retroactive to January 1, 2012. However, as a result of the law being signed in January 2013, the financial impact of any retroactive provision was recorded as a discrete item in the tax provision in the first quarter of 2013. Our effective tax rate approximates the statutory tax rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 . We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state R&D credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to closely monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Litigation. As discussed in Part II, Item 1 (Legal Proceedings), we are subject to legal proceedings and claims, which includes, among other things, our on-going litigation with ITC in which we are in the process of appealing an Order of the U.S. District Court in a patent infringement action related to the predictive scrub feature of our PrecisionPoint , PrecisionWoRx and ProbeWoRx products in which we were the defendants. See Part II, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q (Legal Proceedings) for a discussion of this action and the District Courts adverse order affirming the jury award and ordering other relief in this matter. We are in the process of appealing the Order and damages assessment. In the event that the ultimate decision in the ITC Litigation results in a judgment of damages against us at the high end of the identified ranges, such result will have a material impact on the our results of operations and may also have a material impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2013 , we had $166.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $258.9 million in working capital. At December 31, 2012 , we had $169.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $257.0 million in working capital. Typically during periods of revenue growth, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a use of cash as we incur costs and expend cash in advance of receiving cash from our customers. Similarly, during periods of declining revenue, changes in accounts receivable and inventories represent a source of cash as inventory purchases decline and revenue from prior periods is collected. Operating activities used $0.3 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2013 . The net cash and cash equivalents used in operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2013 was primarily a result of an increase in inventory of $8.1 million , a decrease in other current liabilities of $2.9 million , and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.9 million , partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $4.2 million , an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $2.2 million , and net income adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $5.0 million . Operating activities provided $6.9 million in cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $6.0 million , an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $4.9 million , and a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.2 million , partially offset by increase in inventory of $3.1 million , an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.6 million , and a decrease in other current liabilities of $1.4 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2013 of $18.9 million was due to the purchase of marketable securities of $34.9 million , and capital expenditures of $2.5 million , partially offset by the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $18.5 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2012 of $14.1 million was due to the purchase of marketable securities of $31.8 million and capital expenditures of $0.5 million , partially offset by the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $18.2 million . In July 2008 , our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3 million shares of Company common stock with no established end date. As of the time of filing this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we have not purchased any shares under this program. 20 Table of Contents From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all or a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. As of March 31, 2013 , we had an irrevocable standby letter of credit available with Credit Suisse AG totaling $40 million required to secure the damages assessment in connection with the ITC litigation discussed in Part II, Item 1 (Legal Proceedings). The letter of credit expires on February 25, 2014 with provisions for automatic renewal. Upon draw down of funds, the letter of credit would be collateralized by securities held in our investment portfolios and reported in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within the caption Cash and cash equivalents and Marketable securities. No amounts were outstanding on the letter of credit as of, or during the three months ended March 31, 2013 . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenues and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.