MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this document that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding future periods, financial results, revenues, margins, growth, customers, tax rates, product performance, and the impact of accounting rules on our business and the future implications of our statements regarding goals, strategy, and similar terms. We may identify these statements by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, expect, may, might, project, will, and other similar expressions. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements, except as may otherwise be required by law. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which may be difficult to predict or beyond our control, including those factors referenced in this document, including in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors below, and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 25, 2019 (our Annual Report). In particular, our results could vary significantly based on: changes in customer and industry spending; rate and extent of changes in product mix; adoption of new products; timing of orders, shipments, and acceptance of products; our ability to secure volume supply agreements; uncertainties related to our acquisition of 4D Technology Corporation; and general economic conditions. In evaluating our business, investors should carefully consider these factors in addition to any other risks and uncertainties set forth elsewhere. The occurrence of the events described in the risk factors of our Annual Report and risk factors elsewhere in this report as well as other risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While management believes that the discussion and analysis in this report is adequate for a fair presentation of the information presented, we recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with (i) our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018, which were included in our Annual Report, (ii) the section captioned Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report, and (iii) our other filings with the SEC. Overview Together with our subsidiaries, we are an innovator in the field of optical metrology systems, optical inspection systems and advanced analytics for semiconductor manufacturing and other industries. Our systems and solutions are designed to precisely monitor optical critical dimensions, film thickness, and other parameters that are necessary to control the manufacturing process, identify defects, and detect manufacturing equipment anomalies that can affect production yields and device performance. Principal factors that impact our revenue growth include capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors to increase capacity and to enable their development of new technologies, and our ability to improve market share. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well as to evaluate strategic acquisitions to address business challenges and opportunities. In November of 2018 we acquired 4D Technology Corporation (4D), based in Tucson Arizona. The 4D business unit offers a line of interferometry systems for the measurement and inspection of high precision surfaces. 4Ds solutions are used primarily in the manufacture of advanced aerospace and industrial systems as well as for scientific research and semiconductor applications. We derive our revenues primarily from product sales but also from customer service and system upgrades for the installed base of our products. For the three months ended March 30, 2019, we derived 80% of our total net revenues from product, upgrade and software sales, and 20% of our total net revenues from services. Nanometrics Products We offer a diverse line of systems to address the broad range of process control requirements of the semiconductor device and industrial manufacturing markets. In addition, we believe that our product development and engineering expertise and strategic acquisitions will enable us to develop and offer advanced process control solutions that, in the future, should address industry advancement and trends. Automated Systems Our automated systems primarily consist of fully automated metrology systems that are employed in semiconductor production environments. The Atlas family of products represent our line of high-performance metrology systems providing optical critical dimension (OCD ) technology, thin film metrology and wafer stress metrology for transistor and interconnect metrology 23 applications. The thin film and OCD technology is supported by our NanoCD suite of solutions including our NanoDiffract software, SpectraProbe software and NanoGen scalable computing engine that enables visualization, modeling, and analysis of complex structures. Integrated Systems Our integrated metrology (IM) systems are installed directly onto wafer processing equipment to provide near real-time measurements for improved process control and maximum throughput. Our IM systems are sold directly to end user customers. The IMPULSE family of products include the latest technology for OCD, and thin film metrology, and have been successfully qualified on numerous independent Wafer Fabrication Equipment Suppliers platforms. Our NanoCD suite of solutions is sold in conjunction with our IMPULSE systems. Software NanoDiffract is a modeling, visualization and analysis software that takes signals from the metrology systems, providing critical dimension, thickness, and optical properties from in-line measurements. The software has an intuitive three-dimensional modeling interface to provide visualization of todays advanced and complex semiconductor devices. There are proprietary fitting algorithms in NanoDiffract that enable very accurate and very fast calculations for signal processing for high fidelity model-based measurements. SpectraProbe is a model-less fitting engine that enables fast time to solution for in-line excursion detection and control. SpectraProbe complements the high-fidelity modeling of NanoDiffract with a simple machine learning interface for rapid recipe deployment. The software is supported by NanoGen, an enterprise scale computing hardware system that is deployed to run the computing intensive analysis software. NanoGen utilizes commercial server chips and networking architecture and is optimized to support the workload of NanoDiffract and SpectraProbe analysis. Materials Characterization Our materials characterization products include systems that are used to monitor the physical, optical, electrical and material characteristics of discrete electronic industry, opto-electronic, HB-LED (high brightness LEDs), solar PV (solar photovoltaics), compound semiconductor, strained silicon and silicon-on-insulator (SOI) devices, including composition, crystal structure, layer thickness, dopant concentration, contamination and electron mobility. We have a broad portfolio of products for materials characterization including photoluminescence mapping and Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscope in automated and manual systems for substrate quality and epitaxial thickness metrology. The NanoSpec line supports thin film measurement across all applications in both low volume production and research applications. Industrial, Scientific, and Research Markets: 4D Technology In November of 2018 we acquired 4D Technology Corporation, based in Tucson Arizona. The 4D business unit offers a line of interferometry systems for the measurement and inspection of high precision surfaces. End markets include high precision optics surfaces and components, aerospace and defense components, and unique research and scientific instrumentation that requires the unique high-speed results of the 4D systems. We are continually working to strengthen our competitive position by developing new technologies and products in our market segment. We have expanded our product offerings to address growing applications within the semiconductor manufacturing and adjacent industries. In pursuit of our goals, we have: Introduced new products, applications, and upgrades in every core product line and primary market served; Diversified our product line and served markets through acquisitions; and Continued development of new measurement and inspection technologies for advanced fabrication processes and packaging. 24 Important Themes and Significant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by new manufacturing processes (node) coming to market every two to three years. At every new node in the semiconductor industry, our customers drive the need for metrology as a major component of device manufacturing. These trends include: Proliferation of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes . Device dimensions must be carefully controlled during each step of processing. These patterned structures are measured at many subsequent production steps including Chemical Mechanical Polishing, Etch, and Thin Film processing, all driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state-of-the-art devices. Nanometrics OCD technology is broadly adopted across 3D-NAND, DRAM, and logic semiconductor manufacturing processes. Proliferation of 3D Transistor Architectures . Our end customers continue to improve device density and performance by scaling front-end-of-line transistor architectures. Many of these designs, including FinFET transistors, have buried features and high aspect ratio stacked features that enable improved performance and density. The advanced designs require additional process control to manage the complex shapes and materials properties, driving additional applications of our systems. Proliferation of High-Density 3D-NAND . Our end customers have migrated to multi (many) layered high aspect ratio 3D-NAND devices. Many stacks of NAND cells are formed in parallel. This 3D-NAND architecture enables cost effective density scaling, removing the burden of density from lithography to deposition and etch processes. These devices require additional process control of deposition stacks, planarization processes, and critical high aspect ratio etch processes. Nanometrics thin films and OCD technologies are adopted across the 3D-NAND process including the periphery CMOS processing, NAND cell formation, and Interconnect of the devices. Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials . The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to new materials and processing methods with single atom/sub nanometer control over these processes. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies . Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting, shorter product life cycles and time to market, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and automated systems, as well as advanced metrology algorithms and analytics, throughout the fabrication process to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations, impairment and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. Except for the changes noted below, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 30, 2019. Please refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report for a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies. Change in Accounting for Leases (Adoption of ASU 2016-02 Leases) - We adopted the new accounting standard ASC 842 and related amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the alternative optional transition method. As such, we recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new lease standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for fiscal 2019. Comparative financial statements for fiscal 2018 have been prepared under the previous accounting standard. Please refer to Note 1. Nature of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of this change. 25 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects or anticipated effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Results of Operations Net Revenues Our net revenues comprised the following (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change Product 53,855 71,019 (17,164 ) -24.2 % Service 13,245 11,294 1,951 17.3 % Total net revenues $ 67,100 $ 82,313 $ (15,213 ) -18.5 % Capital spending by our customers is dependent on the timing of new semiconductor fabrication plants, capacity expansion within existing plants, and the adoption of modern technology for current and future manufacturing needs. Results may vary significantly based on changes in any of these factors. For the three months ended March 30, 2019, total net revenues decreased by $15.2 million relative to the comparable period in fiscal 2018. The decrease comprised a $17.2 million decrease in product revenue, mainly as a result of lower demand in the overall wafer fab equipment market, and a $2.0 million increase in service revenue compared to the same prior year period. A significant portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity is in Asia. We generated 68% of our revenues in Asia in the three months ended March 30, 2019 compared to 88% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of 20%. This was mainly due to an increase in revenue from a strategic U.S. customer related to fab expansion as a result of new technology adoption. Although sales to customers within individual countries of that region will vary from time to time, we expect that a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in Asia. Gross margin Our gross margin breakdown was as follows: Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Products 51.0% 59.7% Service 47.5% 45.5% The calculation of product gross margin includes both cost of products and amortization of intangibles. The gross margin on product revenue decreased to 51.0% in the three months ended March 30, 2019 from 59.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was partially due to an unfavorable product and customer mix and lower factory utilization. Additionally, the amortization of intangibles of $0.5 million, or 0.7%, and acquisition-related adjustments of $1.0 million, or 1.4%, negatively impacted product margin by an aggregate 2.1%. The gross margin on our services business increased to 47.5% in the three months ended March 30, 2019 from 45.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was due to higher labor utilization rates, increased revenue from service contracts with higher margins and lower service spending. 26 Operating expenses Our operating expenses comprised the following categories (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change Research and development $ 12,987 $ 10,202 $ 2,785 27.3 % Selling 9,282 9,024 258 2.9 % General and administrative 7,905 7,741 164 2.1 % Amortization of intangible assets 289 289 na Total operating expenses $ 30,463 $ 26,967 $ 3,496 13.0 % Research and development Investments in research and development personnel and associated projects are part of our strategy to ensure our products remain competitive and meet customers needs. For the three months ended March 30, 2019, research and development costs increased by $2.8 million, or 27.3%, compared to the same period in 2018. The increase was driven by additional headcount and new product development initiatives, and costs of $0.7 million resulting from the acquisition of 4D subsequent to the same period in 2018, which were partially offset by lower variable compensation costs. Selling Selling expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2019 increased by $0.3 million, or 2.9% compared to the same period in 2018. The increase was driven by additional headcount, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs and lower sales commission expenses. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 2.1%, in the three months ended March 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional headcount, severance costs, and IT infrastructure costs, partially offset by lower variable compensation costs and professional services fees. Other income (expense), net. Our other income (expense), net, consisted of the following items (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change Interest expense, net $ (91 ) $ (93 ) $ 2 Net gains on investments 310 269 41 Other losses, net (40 ) 83 (123 ) Other income, net 270 352 (82 ) Total other income, net $ 179 $ 259 $ (80 ) Other income, net, decreased by $0.1 million in the three months ended March 30, 2019 relative to the comparable period in 2018. The change was principally due to lower returns on marketable securities and foreign exchange net losses. Provision for income taxes We recorded a tax provision of $0.5 million and $4.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The decrease in the tax provision for 2019 from 2018 was primarily related to our decreased profitability for the three months ended March 30, 2019, as well as less U.S. tax required on foreign earnings under the Tax Credit and Jobs Act (TCJA). Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 30, 2019 of $0.5 million reflects an effective tax rate of 15.2%. The tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2019 differs from the Federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to foreign and R&D tax credits and tax benefits associated with the settlement of equity options/awards offset by foreign income being subject to tax at higher rates, state income taxes, and non-deductible equity compensation. 27 The TCJA created a new requirement that global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) earned by controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) must be included currently in the gross income of the CFCs U.S. shareholder. Under U.S. GAAP, we were allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treati ng taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the period cost method) or (2) factoring such amounts into a companys measurement of its deferred taxes (the deferred method). Our sel ection of an accounting policy in 2018 with respect to the GILTI tax rules was to treat GILTI tax as a current period expense under the period cost method. As of March 30, 2019, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against our California and Switzerland deferred tax assets as a result of uncertainties regarding the realization of the assets due to cumulative losses and uncertainty of future taxable income. We will continue to assess the realizability of the deferred tax assets in each of the applicable jurisdictions and maintain the valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support a reversal. In the event we determine that the deferred tax assets are realizable, an adjustment to the valuation allowance will be reflected in the tax provision for the period such determination is made. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states including California, and foreign jurisdictions including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, China, Singapore, U.K., Ireland, Germany, France, and Israel. Due to tax attribute carry-forwards, we are subject to examination for tax years 2003 forward for U.S. tax purposes. We are also subject to examination in various states for tax years 2002 forward. We are subject to examination for tax years 2011 forward for various foreign jurisdictions. We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. The total amount of penalties and interest were not material as of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018. During the next twelve months, we anticipate increases in our unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.6 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and cash flow generated from our operations. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including those that relate to our specific operations and those that relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the sectors of the semiconductor industry in which we operate in. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, combined with cash currently projected to be generated from our operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next twelve months. The following tables present selected financial information and statistics as of March 30, 2019 and December 29, 2018 and for the three months ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 (in thousands): As of March 30, 2019 December 29, 2018 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 148,063 $ 151,792 Working capital $ 213,962 $ 211,108 As of March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (856 ) $ 32,714 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (15,964 ) 21,616 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 745 (22,918 ) Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $148.1 million at March 30, 2019, which reflects a decrease of $3.7 million from December 29, 2018. Of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 30, 2019, approximately $28.5 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, a portion of which would have to be repatriated to the United States. We continuously evaluate if there is a need to repatriate these funds. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over at least the next twelve months. Working capital was $214.0 million at March 30, 2019, which reflects an increase of $2.9 million when compared to $211.1 million at December 29, 2018. Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 30, 2019 was $0.9 million, consisting primarily of net income of $3.0 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $7.3 million, and $11.2 million of net cash outflows related to changes in operating assets and liabilities. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods due to several factors, including variations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections performance, inventory and supply chain management, vendor payment initiatives, tax benefits or charges from stock-based compensation, and the timing and amount of compensation and other payments. The non-cash items of $7.3 million related to depreciation, amortization, inventory reserves and 28 stock-based compensation. The net cash outflows related to the use of operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to the timing of payments of variable compensation to employees , timing of tax payments and higher inventory purchases for some new product introductions. These payments hav e been partially offset by collections from customers against early payment programs and improvements in payment terms from some vendors, resulting in lower days sales outstanding and higher days payables outstanding. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $32.7 million, consisting primarily of net income of $16.4 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $6.3 million, and $10.1 million of net cash inflows related to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were generally driven by the timing of our customer payments for accounts receivable and the timing of inventory purchases and the associated vendor payments for accounts payable. Cash used in investing activities of $16.0 million during the three months ended March 30, 2019 consisted primarily of $24.0 million of purchases of marketable securities and payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment and certain assets of $4.1 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $12.2 million. Cash provided by investing activities of $21.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of net of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $23.9 million, offset in part by payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment and certain assets of $2.3 million. Cash provided by financing activities of $0.7 million during the three months ended March 30, 2019 consisted primarily of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase program of $1.5 million, partially offset by $0.8 million cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards. Cash used in financing activities of $22.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of $23.0 million of common stock repurchases and $0.5 million cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options of $0.5 million. Repurchases of Common Stock On March 14, 2019 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $80.0 million of our common stock. This plan is referred to as the Stock Repurchase Plan. Under the terms of the Stock Repurchase Plan shares may be repurchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions. During the three months ended March 30, 2019 no shares were repurchased under the Stock Repurchase Plan. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Stock Repurchase Plan for $50.0 million that was authorized on November 15, 2017 was completed and we repurchased 896,187 shares at an average purchase price of $25.65 per share for a total of $23.0 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 30, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of our business from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2019. 29