Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-Q, or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q, of Onto Innovation Inc. (referred to in this Form 10-Q, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified or suggested by the context, as the Company, Onto Innovation, we, our or us) may be considered forward-looking statements or may be based on forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those concerning: our business momentum and future growth; technology development, product introduction and acceptance of our products and services; our manufacturing practices and ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and to strengthen our market position, including our ability to source components, materials, and equipment due to supply chain delays or shortages; our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook; future revenue, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, and cash requirements; the effects of political, economic, legal, and regulatory changes or conflicts on our global operations; the effects of natural disasters or public health emergencies, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, on the global economy and on our customers, suppliers, employees, and business; our dependence on certain significant customers and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate; and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation. Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements and are subject to safe harbors under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will, would, forecast, project and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. Forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our current expectations, assumptions and projections with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those identified in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Actual results may differ materially and adversely from those included in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. 18Table of Contents Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2023 in the Items entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, we believe that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the 2022 Form 10-K. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in our 2022 Form 10-K and recent accounting pronouncements discussed in Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Executive Summary We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of metrology and inspection tools for the semiconductor industry, including process control tools that perform optical metrology on patterned and unpatterned wafers, wafer macro-defect inspection, including macro-inspection of both 2D and 3D wafer features, wafer substrate and panel substrate lithography systems, and process control analytical software. Our products are primarily used by silicon wafer manufacturers, semiconductor device fabricators, and advanced packaging manufacturers operating in the semiconductor market. Our products are also used for process control in a number of other specialty device manufacturing markets, including light emitting diodes (LED), vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSEL), micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), CMOS image sensors (CIS), silicon and compound semiconductor (SiC and GaN) power devices, analog devices, RF filters, data storage, and certain industrial and scientific applications. We provide process and yield management solutions used in bare silicon wafer production and wafer processing facilities, often referred to as front-end manufacturing, and advanced packaging of chips and test facilities, or back-end manufacturing, through a portfolio of standalone systems for optical metrology, macro-defect inspection, packaging lithography, as well as transparent and opaque thin film measurements. Our automated and integrated metrology systems measure critical dimensions, device structures, topography, shape, and various thin film compositions, including three-dimensional features and film thickness, as well as optical, electrical and material properties. Our primary areas of focus include products that provide critical yield-enhancing and actionable information, which is used by microelectronic device manufacturers to improve yield and time to market of their next-generation devices. Our systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. In addition, our advanced process control software portfolio includes powerful solutions for standalone tools, groups of tools, and factory-wide and enterprise-wide suites to enhance productivity and achieve significant cost savings. Our systems are backed by worldwide customer service and applications support. The semiconductor and electronics industries have been characterized by constant technological innovations. We believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable smaller design rules and higher density applications that fuel demand for process control equipment. The following table summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except per share and percent data): Three Months Ended April 1, December 31, April 2, 2023 2022 2022 Revenue $ 199,165 $ 253,270 $ 241,350 Gross profit $ 104,975 $ 137,222 $ 131,023 Gross profit as a percent of revenue 53 % 54 % 54 % Total operating expenses $ 75,940 $ 76,010 $ 72,279 Net income $ 29,068 $ 66,214 $ 53,330 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 1.34 $ 1.07 19Table of Contents In the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2023 (the April 2023 quarter), revenue decreased 21% compared to the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2022 (the December 2022 quarter), primarily due to a decline in sales to memory customers in advanced nodes applications, and foundry and power customers in specialty device and advanced packaging applications. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue in the April 2023 quarter compared to the December 2022 quarter decreased primarily due to a decrease in revenue volume, partially offset by a favorable product mix. Operating expenses in the April 2023 quarter compared to the December 2022 quarter were relatively flat primarily due to lower travel and project expenses, offset by restructuring charges related to employee severance. In the first quarter of 2023, customer demand weakened due to a reduction in wafer fabrication equipment spending. As a result, we initiated a restructuring plan that included workforce reductions and the write-down of inventory for older product lines. We incurred a charge of $2.0 million for employee severance costs and $2.3 million for inventory write-downs of older product lines. We anticipate that these activities will continue into subsequent quarters of 2023 and anticipate recording additional restructuring charges. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance increased to $583.5 million as of April 1, 2023 compared to $547.8 million as of December 31, 2022. This increase was primarily the result of $50.1 million of cash generated from operating activities. This source of cash was partially offset by cash of $3.2 million used for purchases of our common stock, $7.9 million used for capital expenditures and $6.3 million used for tax payments related to shares withheld to satisfy employee tax obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under share-based compensation plans. Employee headcount as of April 1, 2023 was approximately 1,580. We experienced supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures in 2022, and although there have been improvements in supply chain performance, we expect supply chain shortages as well as inflationary cost pressures to persist throughout fiscal 2023. In 2022, the United States government implemented additional export regulations for U.S. semiconductor technology sold in China. We have applied for export licenses to continue doing business with our customers that are affected by the new export rules. However, the new export controls have resulted in lower net sales in China for the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the same period last year. For a discussion of the risks related to the our business and operations, see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022 Revenue. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of our systems, software licensing, services and spare parts. Our revenue of $199.2 million decreased 17.5% for the three months ended April 1, 2023 as compared to three months ended April 2, 2022, in which revenue totaled $241.3 million. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenue in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenue: Three Months Ended April 1, April 2, 2023 2022 Systems and software $ 166,824 84 % $ 209,383 87 % Parts 20,423 10 % 19,857 8 % Services 11,918 6 % 12,110 5 % Total revenue $ 199,165 100 % $ 241,350 100 % Total systems and software revenue decreased $42.6 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, primarily due to decreases of units shipped in our metrology, inspection and lithography product lines. The increase in parts and services revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, was primarily due to servicing a larger installed base. Parts and services revenue is generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, and system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. 20Table of Contents Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will likely continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, system and software product mix and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $105.0 million and $131.0 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. Our gross profit represented 52.7% and 54.3% of our revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2023 as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022 was primarily due to lower sales volume and charges related to excess and obsolete inventory for older product lines. Operating Expenses. Our operating expenses consist of: Research and Development. We believe that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in research and development to ensure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of our customers most advanced designs. We have maintained and intend to continue our commitment to investing in research and development in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our technical, management and financial resources to research and development programs. Research and development expenditures consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of employees engaged in research, design and development activities. They also include consulting fees, the cost of related supplies and legal costs to defend our patents. Our research and development expenses were $27.2 million and $26.3 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. The increases in research and development expenses for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, were primarily due to increased compensation costs and material expenses for new product initiatives, partially offset by decreased outside service expenses. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses are primarily comprised of salaries, commissions and related costs for sales and marketing personnel, as well as other non-personnel related expenses. Our sales and marketing expenses of $15.6 million remained flat for the three months ended April 1, 2023 as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses are primarily comprised of salaries and related costs for corporate and administrative personnel, as well as other non-personnel related expenses. Our general and administrative expenses were $19.2 million and $16.5 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. The increases in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, were primarily due to restructuring charges for employee severance costs and increased merger and acquisition related expenses. Amortization of Identifiable Intangible Assets. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets remained consistent period over period and was $13.8 million for both the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022. Interest income, net. Net interest income was $3.4 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. The increase in net interest income for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, was due to higher average marketable securities balances and interest rates during the 2023 period. Other expense, net. Net other expense was $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. The increase in other expense, net for the three months ended April 1, 2023, as compared to the three months ended April 2, 2022, was primarily due to higher foreign exchange losses during the 2023 period. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $3.1 million and $5.6 million for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022, respectively. Our effective tax rate of 10% for the three months ended April 1, 2023, differs from the statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to (i) research and development tax credits, (ii) the deduction related to foreign derived intangible income (FDII), and (iii) excess tax benefits associated with equity compensation. Our effective tax rate of 9% for the three months ended April 2, 2022, differs from the statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to (i) foreign and research and development tax credits, (ii) the deduction related to FDII, and (iii) excess tax benefits associated with equity compensation. 21Table of Contents Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as possible changes in tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with business combinations, and research and development tax credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income. We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded for certain foreign and state loss and credit carryforwards where the realizability of such deferred tax assets is substantially in doubt. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and development credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 1, 2023, we had $583.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $1,006.7 million in working capital. At December 31, 2022, we had $547.8 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $974.3 million in working capital. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022 were $50.1 million and $45.5 million, respectively. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2023 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $51.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $1.0 million, primarily due to an increase in inventories and a decrease in accrued liabilities, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 2, 2022 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $70.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $25.4 million, primarily due to increases in inventories and accounts receivable. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by investing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2023 was $13.2 million. For the three months ended April 2, 2022, investing activities used net cash and cash equivalents of $33.3 million. During the three months ended April 1, 2023, net cash and cash equivalents provided by investing activities included proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $109.7 million, partially offset by purchases of marketable securities of $88.6 million and capital expenditures of $7.9 million. During the three months ended April 2, 2022, net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities included purchases of marketable securities of $97.5 million and capital expenditures of $2.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $66.7 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2023 and April 2, 2022 were $9.5 million and $7.6 million, respectively. During the three months ended April 1, 2023, financing activities used cash primarily for tax payments related to shares withheld to satisfy employee tax obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under share-based compensation plans of $6.3 million and repurchases of common stock of $3.2 million. During the three months ended April 2, 2022, financing activities used cash to primarily pay taxes related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $5.3 million and pay contingent consideration for acquired business of $2.3 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $6.0 thousand. 22Table of Contents In November 2020, the Onto Innovation Board of Directors approved a share repurchase authorization, which allows the Company to repurchase up to $100 million worth of shares of its common stock. Repurchases may be made through both public market and private transactions from time to time with shares purchased being subsequently retired. During the three months ended April 1, 2023, we repurchased 46 thousand shares of common stock under this repurchase authorization and those shares were subsequently retired. As of April 1, 2023, there was $31.6 million available for future share repurchases under this share repurchase authorization. We have a credit agreement with a bank that provides for a line of credit that is secured by the marketable securities we have with the bank. We are permitted to borrow up to 70% of the value of eligible securities held at the time the line of credit is accessed. As of April 1, 2023, the available line of credit was approximately $100.0 million with an available interest rate of 6.5%. The credit agreement is available to us until such time that either party terminates the arrangement at its discretion. As of the date of this filing, we have not utilized the line of credit. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenue and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs for the next 12 months following the filing of this Form 10-Q. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. However, the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have in the past caused disruption in the capital markets and were they to do the same in the future, may have an impact on our ability to access such additional funding. In addition, a reduction in or volatility with respect to our stock price or a general market downturn could materially impact our ability to sell securities on favorable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.