Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The current global economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry have caused us losses in the past and reductions in available cash, and may, in the future, negatively impact our financial performance. Current global economic conditions, the gradual recovery of the global economy and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry have impacted and could impact future customer demand for our products and our financial performance. The degree of this impact will depend on a number of factors, including the timing and extent of recovery of the U.S. and global economy from the recession. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends, in large parts, on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, higher interest rates, higher tax rates and other economic factors may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult economic conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may also experience supplier or customer issues as a result of adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our customers have difficulties in obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could also result in an increase in bad debt expense. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, price erosion, product obsolescence, evolving standards, short product life cycles and significant volatility in supply and demand. Due to the cyclical nature of the industry, we may need to take actions to reduce costs in the future, which could reduce our ability to significantly invest in research and development at levels we believe are necessary. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our revenue would materially decline if one or more of these customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and each year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. There are only a limited number of large companies operating in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If our current relationships with our large customers are impaired, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers in the future, our revenues could decline significantly. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and significant loss of revenue. We rely on outside vendors to manufacture many components and subassemblies. Certain components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our systems are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers. We have entered into arrangements with J.A. Woollam Co., Inc. for the purchase of the spectroscopic ellipsometer component incorporated into our advanced measurement systems. We also have supply agreements with MPA and Spectral Systems, and subcontract manufacturing agreements with Fox Semiconductor, IFAT and Toho Technologies. In June 2009, we signed a supply agreement with Zygo Corporation to 12 Table of Contents supply OEM interferometer sensors for incorporation into the Unifire line of products as well as our family of automated metrology systems. Our reliance on a sole or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including the following: we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components; we have reduced control over pricing and the timely delivery of components and subassemblies; our suppliers may be unable to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. Some of our suppliers have relatively limited financial and other resources. Because the manufacturing of certain of these components and subassemblies involves extremely complex processes and requires long lead times, we may experience delays or shortages caused by our suppliers. If we were forced to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components or subassemblies internally, we could be forced to redesign our systems, which could increase our cost structure, cause production delays and prevent us from shipping our systems to customers on a timely basis. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries from our suppliers, or any other circumstance that would restrict our ability to ship our products, could damage relationships with current and prospective customers, harm our business and result in significant loss of revenue. Any inability to manage our manufacturing cost volatility from our suppliers could adversely impact our operating results. If we are successful in growing our sales, the risks to our business from dependence on single source or a limited group of suppliers will become significantly greater. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products. We operate in the highly competitive semiconductor industry and face competition from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, research and development, marketing and customer support resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair sales of our products. Moreover, there has been merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These transactions by our competitors and potential competitors may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers in the semiconductor industry are large companies that require global support and service for their metrology systems. Some of our larger or more geographically diverse competitors might be better equipped to provide this global support. Because of the high cost of switching equipment vendors in our markets, it may be difficult for us to attract customer from our competitors even if our metrology systems are superior to theirs. We believe that once a semiconductor customer has selected one vendor's metrology system, the customer generally relies upon that system and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of the same vendor's system, for the life of the application. Once a vendor's metrology system has been installed, a customer must often make substantial technical modifications and may experience downtime in order to switch to another vendor's metrology system. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customer's expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales from that customer once it has selected another vendor's system for an application. We depend on Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) suppliers for sales of our integrated metrology systems, and the loss of our OEM suppliers as customers could harm our business. We believe that sales of integrated metrology systems will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Sales of our integrated metrology systems depend upon the ability of OEMs to sell semiconductor manufacturing equipment products that include our metrology systems as components. If our OEM customers are unable to sell such products, or if they choose to focus their attention on products that do not integrate our systems, our business could suffer. If we were to lose our OEM customers for any reason, our ability to realize sales from integrated metrology systems would be diminished, which would harm our business. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. Our profitability will decline if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand when managing inventory. We generally sell our products on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Our customers can typically cancel purchase orders or defer product shipments for some period without incurring liabilities to us. We typically plan production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially, which could lead to excess inventory write-downs and resulting negative impacts on gross margin and net income. We have limited visibility into our customers' inventories, future customer 13 Table of Contents demand and the product mix that our customers will require, which could adversely affect our production forecasts and operating margins. In addition, innovation in our industry could render significant portions of our inventory obsolete. If we overestimate our customers' requirements, we may have excess inventory, which could lead to obsolete inventory and unexpected costs. Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could lead to foregone revenue opportunities, loss of potential market share and damage to customer relationships as product deliveries may not be made on a timely basis, disrupting our customers' production schedules. In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from outside suppliers and foundries, we periodically order materials in advance of customer demand. This advance ordering has in the past and may in the future result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors make our products less saleable. In addition, any significant future cancellation or deferral of product orders could adversely affect our revenue and margins, increase inventory write-downs due to obsolete inventory, and adversely affect our operating results and stock price. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To achieve this, from time to time we have acquired complementary businesses, products, or technologies instead of developing them ourselves and may choose to do so in the future. For example, in November 2011, we acquired Nanda Technologies GmbH, a supplier of high-throughput, high-sensitivity defect inspection technology for semiconductor manufacturing. In June 2009, we entered into a strategic partnership with Zygo under an exclusive OEM supply agreement to provide interferometer sensors to us for incorporation into our Unifire line of products as well as our family of automated metrology systems. In May 2008, we acquired Tevet Process Control Technologies, Ltd., an integrated metrology company serving the worldwide semiconductor and solar manufacturing industry. However, we may not be able to identify suitable transactions in the future, or if we do identify such transactions, we may not be able to complete them on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We also face intense competition for acquisitions from other acquirers in our industry. These competing acquirers may have significantly greater financial and other resources than us, which may prevent us from successfully pursuing a transaction. Potential risks associated with acquisitions could include, among other things: our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. If an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, in order to finance any acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings; we may be unable to obtain financing at all; or we may be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity or convertible debt financing, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our success depends on the performance of key personnel, including our senior management and on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel. We believe our continued ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate highly-skilled engineering, operations, sales, administrative and managerial personnel is key to our future success. Competition for these employees is intense, particularly with respect to attracting and retaining qualified senior management personnel. We have experienced turnover in our senior management team in the past. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to effectively integrate our senior management into our business operations. We do not have employment agreements with key members of our senior management team, and these individuals or other key employees may leave the Company. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. In addition, to support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified senior management personnel, our business could be harmed and our ability to implement our strategy could be compromised . If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility will be harmed, revenue from, and market acceptance of, our systems will decrease and we could expend significant capital and resources as a result of such defects. 14 Table of Contents Our products are complex and frequently operate in high-performance, challenging environments. Notwithstanding our internal quality specifications, our systems have sometimes contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems would be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems and incur significant costs for product recalls and inventory write-offs. Defects could also lead to product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability arising from defects in our systems. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits. If we experience significant delays in shipping our products to our customers, our business and reputation may suffer. Our products are complex and require technical expertise to design and manufacture properly. Various problems occasionally arise during the manufacturing process that may cause delays and/or impair product quality. Any significant delays stemming from the failure of our products to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, or for any other reasons, would delay our shipments. Shipment delays could harm our business and reputation in the industry. The average selling prices of our products may decrease over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. It is common in our industry for the average selling price of a given product to decrease over time as production volumes increase, competing products are developed or new technologies featuring higher performance or lower cost emerge. To combat the negative effects that erosion of average selling prices have had in the past and may in the future have on our revenue, we attempt to actively manage the prices of our existing products and regularly introduce new process technologies and products in the market that exhibit higher performance, new features that are in demand, or lower manufacturing cost. Failure to maintain our current prices or to successfully execute on our new product development strategy will cause our revenue and gross margin to decline, which could decrease the value of your investment in our common stock. Third party infringement claims could be costly to defend, and successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important intellectual property rights by us. The semiconductor industry is generally subject to frequent litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. From time to time we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our metrology systems may contain design features which are claimed to infringe on their proprietary rights. Our new or current products may infringe valid intellectual property rights, but even if our products do not infringe, we may be required to expend significant sums of money to defend against infringement claims, or to actively protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. In the event that a claim is made and there is an adverse result of any intellectual property rights litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages for infringement, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, incur material liability for royalty payments or fees to obtain licenses to the technology covered by the litigation, or be subjected to an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products and materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in any such non-infringing development or that any such license would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, lost sales or damaged customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention and resources. Our intellectual property may be infringed by third parties despite our efforts to protect it, which could threaten our future success and competitive position and harm our operating results. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology for our principal product families, and we rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, it will be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. We own or may license patents relating to our systems, and have filed applications for additional patents. Any of our pending patent applications may be rejected, and we may not in the future be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. In addition, the patents we own, have been issued or licensed, may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Third parties may also design around these patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, in the event that these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies. Our confidential and proprietary information and technology might also be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. We may be required to 15 Table of Contents initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us, or to determine the scope or validity of a third partys patent or other proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to re-engineer our product or obtain expensive licenses from third parties, any of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Our ability to enforce our patents and other intellectual property is limited by our financial resources and is subject to general litigation risks. If we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid, are otherwise not enforceable or are licensed to the party against whom we assert a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which is a frequent occurrence in such litigations. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 78.1%, 65.4% and 70.3%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan, South Korea, China, Singapore and Taiwan. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products and our business would suffer. Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause volatility in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our revenues to fluctuate widely from period to period. Our customers generally take long periods of time to evaluate our metrology systems. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems. The length of time that it takes for us to complete a sale depends upon many factors, including: the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives; the complexity of the customers metrology needs; the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; the customers budgetary constraints; and the quality and sophistication of the customers current processing equipment. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time at which we recognize revenue from that customer, if at all, varies widely. Our sales cycles, including the time it takes for us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically range from three to nine months. Occasionally our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly with customers in Asia who may require longer evaluation periods. During the sales cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. If we do complete a sale, customers often purchase only one of our systems and then evaluate its performance for a lengthy period of time before purchasing additional systems. The purchases are generally made through purchase orders rather than through long-term contracts. The number of additional products that a customer purchases, if any, depends on many factors, including a customers capacity requirements, and/or shifting to more and advanced manufacturing processes that require more or different products to control. If they change their rate of capacity or have technological change, we cannot compensate for this fluctuation in demand by adjusting the price of our products. The period between a customers initial purchase and any subsequent purchases is unpredictable and can vary from three months to a year or longer. Variations in the length of this period could cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Relatively small fluctuations in our system sales volume may cause our operating results to vary significantly each quarter. During any quarter, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our automated metrology systems range in price from approximately $200,000 to over $1,600,000 per system, and our integrated metrology systems range in price from approximately $100,000 to $500,000 per system. Accordingly, a small change in the number or mix of systems that we sell could cause significant changes in our operating results. If we fail to develop new and enhanced metrology systems we will likely lose market share to our competitors. 16 Table of Contents We operate in an industry that is subject to rapid technological changes, changes in customer demands and the introduction of new, higher performance systems with short product life cycles. To be competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new metrology systems that meet the performance and price demands of semiconductor manufacturers and suppliers. We must also continue to refine our current systems so that they remain competitive. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new systems, and we may not ultimately be successful in developing them. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. Lack of market acceptance for our new products may affect our ability to generate revenue and may harm our business. In 2009, we introduced the Atlas XP+ system as the follow-on to our Atlas metrology system and our Mosaic TM overlay system. In 2010, the capability of our NanoCD suite was extended with launches of our new modeling and analysis software, NanoDiffract , and migration to the latest generation of cluster computers for fabrication wide analysis ( NanoGen ). In 2011, we introduced the Mosaic II overlay metrology solution and the Atlas II OCD system, a next-generation tool for high performance process control metrology. Our materials characterization products, including the RPMBlue TM and Trajectory system continued to gain acceptance at established and emerging customers in the HB-LED and solar segments of the market. We have invested substantial time and resources into the development of these products. However, we cannot accurately predict the future level of acceptance of our new products by our customers. As a result, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue from sales of these products or future new products or improvements. We depend on new products and processes for our success. Consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. We cannot make assurances if or when the products and solutions where we have focused our research and development expenditures will become commercially successful. If new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance could be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We might not be able to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. Our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. In order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sale of existing products. We are subject to risks associated with our competitors strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share. We expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. We believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to our products and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. We face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. These competitors may deeply discount products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. As a result, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. In addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently offer or may offer in the future. They may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those that we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets and competition may intensify, or future competition, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows 17 Table of Contents could suffer. If we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired. The business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to operating activities. During periods of growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. We manufacture all of our systems at a limited number of facilities, and any prolonged disruption in the operations of those facilities could reduce our revenues. We produce all of our systems in our manufacturing facilities located in Milpitas, California. We use contract manufacturers in China, Israel, Japan and the United States. In addition, we perform limited subassembly for certain products at our York, England facility. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated, costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, such as those resulting from acts of war, terrorism, political instability, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disaster could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations, see Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8, Note 1. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, our operating results have been affected by the calculation of share-based compensation expense and by the testing and potential impairment of long-lived assets such as goodwill and other intangible assets. The process of evaluating potential impairments is highly subjective and requires significant judgment, and our results of operations could vary significantly from estimates. Our operating results have varied in the past and probably will continue to vary significantly in the future, which will cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary in the future, which volatility could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our stock to extreme price and volume fluctuations include: general economic growth or decline in the U.S. or foreign markets; changes in customer demand for our systems; the gain or loss of a key customer or significant changes in the financial condition or one or more key customers; economic conditions in the semiconductor industries; the timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders and shipments; market acceptance of our products and our customers' products; our ability to recover the higher costs associated with meeting our customers' increasing service demands; competitive pressures on product prices and changes in pricing by our customers or suppliers; the timing of new product announcements and product releases by us or our competitors and our ability to design, introduce and manufacture new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; the occurrence of potential impairments of long-lived assets; the timing of acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; the effects of war, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or political unrest; the loss of key personnel; the levels of our fixed expenses, relative to our revenue levels; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Japanese yen and the British pound sterling. 18 Table of Contents The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly and annual operating results. If our operating results in any period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We are required to obtain an attestation report from independent registered public accounting firm on management's internal control over financial reporting for the 2011 fiscal year. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report from management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal control report must include the following: (1) a statement of management's responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and (3) management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. We are required to obtain an opinion that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management's internal control over financial reporting for the 2011 fiscal year. If we report any material weakness in our internal controls, public perception of the Company may be adversely impacted, which in turn could cause a decline in the market value of our stock. We may also have to devote substantial resources to correcting any deficiencies. We are highly dependent on international sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We have operations in Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, South Korea, China, Israel, Singapore and the European Union. As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside of the U.S. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. International sales and operations carry inherent risks such as: regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments; obstacles to the protection of our intellectual property, political, military and terrorism risks; foreign currency controls and currency exchange rate fluctuations; periodic local or international economic downturns; political instability, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations; repatriation of cash earned in foreign countries; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the U.S.; disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or other government agencies; uncertainty regarding liability under foreign laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import and export requirements), tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws; and other challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences. If any of these risks materialize and we are unable to manage them, our international sales and operations would suffer. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations arises in part from current intercompany accounts in which costs are charged between our U.S. headquarters and foreign subsidiaries. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, labeling, and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses. 19 Table of Contents We may unintentionally violate environmental laws or regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by limiting our ability to engage in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which it will be more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time; limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure, which may adversely affect our operations . We rely on our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, SYSPRO, to manage our business and accurately and timely report key data with respect to our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure arising out of general use of such systems, periodic upgrades and updates, or external factors that are outside of our control. Any such disruption could adversely affect our ability to complete essential business processes, including our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other IT systems, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES At December 31, 2011, our owned or leased facilities included those described below: Type Location Square Footage Use Owned Milpitas, California 133,000 Corporate headquarters and manufacturing Owned Milpitas, California 3,038 Corporate housing Owned Pyoungtack City, South Korea 1,139 Applications and service Leased United Kingdom 20,338 Sales, service and engineering Leased South Korea 20,241 Sales, service and corporate housing Leased Japan 12,286 Sales, service, application, logistics, corporate housing and administrations Leased United States 15,102 Engineering, sales and service Leased Taiwan 11,355 Sales and service Leased China 9,475 Sales and service Leased Israel 8,589 Engineering and service Leased Germany 6,772 Manufacturing, sales and service Leased Singapore 4,529 Sales and service Leased France 570 Sales and service Leased Switzerland 387 Sales and service 20 Table of Contents We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate for our current needs and anticipated growth. The lease in York, United Kingdom with 20,338 square footage used by sales, service and engineering teams expires in October, 2017. The lease in Hwasung-City, South Korea with 13,544 square footage used as sales and service office expires in August, 2014. The lease in Unterschleissheim, Germany for our manufacturing facilities with 6,454 square footage expires December, 2012. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In August 2005, KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA) filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (the California District Court). The complaint alleged that certain of our products infringe two of KLA's patents. On January 30, 2006, KLA added a third patent to its complaint. The complaint sought a preliminary and permanent injunction against the sale of these products as well as the recovery of monetary damages and attorneys' fees. As part of our defense, we filed requests for re-examinations of the allegedly infringed KLA patents with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office (PTO) to determine whether or not the patents should remain enforceable as written. In March 2006, the California District Court stayed the patent litigation case until the re-examinations were completed. On November 4, 2008, the PTO issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate (indicating completion of the reexamination process) on one of the three patents-in-suit. On December 8, 2009, the PTO issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate for another of the KLA patents-in-suit. On September 21, 2009, while the reexamination of the third patent-in-suit was still pending, we filed a second request for re-examination relating to the third patent. On March 30, 2010, the PTO issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate as to the first reexamination of the third patent. In August 2011, we filed a complaint against KLA in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleged that several of KLA's overlay metrology products infringe two of our patents. The complaint sought injunctive relief against KLA's sale of these products as well as a recovery of monetary damages and attorney's fees from KLA. On January 13, 2012, we entered into a settlement and limited patent cross license agreement with KLA to resolve all existing patent litigation between the parties. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we agreed to make a one-time payment of $2.5 million to KLA and each party agreed to a cross-license of the patents that were subject to the litigation. ITEM 4 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol NANO. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market. 2011 High Low First quarter $ 20.00 $ 11.89 Second quarter $ 20.01 $ 14.83 Third quarter $ 21.56 $ 13.56 Fourth quarter $ 18.98 $ 13.49 2010 High Low First quarter $ 13.42 $ 7.98 Second quarter $ 12.25 $ 6.60 Third quarter $ 15.74 $ 8.00 Fourth quarter $ 15.80 $ 10.92 Stockholders On March 6, 2012, there were approximately 246 holders of record of our common stock. Because brokers and the institutions on behalf of stockholders hold many of our shares of common stock, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock Performance Graph The following graph presentation compares cumulative five-year stockholder returns on an indexed basis, assuming a $100 initial investment and reinvestment of dividends, of (a) Nanometrics Incorporated, (b) a broad-based equity market index and (c) an industry-specific index. The broad-based equity market index used is the NASDAQ Composite Index and the industry-specific index used is the RDG Technology Composite Index. This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act. 22 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Pursuant to repurchase programs approved by the Board of Directors, the Company repurchased its common stock as follows (in thousands, except shares and per share data): Plan Period Number of shares repurchased Average price paid per share Total shares repurchased under the plan Amount remaining for repurchase July 2007 August 2010 96,492 $13.68 734,999 November 2010 December 2010 65,000 $11.96 65,000 $ 9,223 May 2011 June 2011 265,040 $16.06 265,040 $ 4,966 On July 26, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase shares of our common stock up to $4.0 million. During the fiscal year 2010, we repurchased and retired 96,492 shares of our common stock under this program for an aggregate consideration of $1.3 million. As of January 1, 2011 the entire $4.0 million approved by the Board for the repurchase of our shares of common stock had been used for the purpose. On November 29, 2010, the Board of Directors approved another program to repurchase up to $10.0 million of the Companys common stock. Share repurchases under this program may be made through open market and privately negotiated transactions, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased is dependent on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. During the fiscal year 2010, we repurchased and retired 65,000 shares of our common stock under this program for an aggregate consideration of $0.8 million. As of January 1, 2011, there remained $9.2 million available for the future repurchase of shares of our common stock. During the fiscal year 2011, we repurchased and retired 265,040 shares of our common stock under this program for an aggregate consideration of $4.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, there remained $5.0 million available for the future repurchase of shares of our common stock. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 23 Table of Contents The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Over the last five fiscal years, we have acquired a number of companies including Nanda Technologies GmbH in fiscal year 2011 and Tevet Process Control Technologies in fiscal year 2008, and also the Unifire product line from Zygo Corporation in fiscal year 2009. The results of these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the respective dates of these acquisitions and have contributed to our growth in revenues, income and income (loss) per share. Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009(a) 2008 2007 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenues: Products $ 194,774 $ 154,548 $ 49,153 $ 75,596 $ 126,049 Service 35,287 33,517 27,554 26,505 20,241 Total net revenues 230,061 188,065 76,707 102,101 146,290 Costs of revenues: Cost of products 88,579 66,484 26,594 38,692 63,938 Cost of service 18,304 19,328 13,992 18,675 20,717 Total cost of net revenues 106,883 85,812 40,586 57,367 84,655 Gross profit 123,178 102,253 36,121 44,734 61,635 Operating expenses: Research and development 23,290 18,973 14,672 17,110 18,577 Selling 27,019 21,320 15,072 17,798 19,561 General and administrative 22,901 18,617 15,168 19,689 21,704 Amortization of intangible assets 1,702 1,556 1,535 3,531 5,782 Restructuring charge 1,134 1,525 2,128 Gain on sale of assets (2,100 ) Legal settlement 2,500 Asset impairment and disposition 463 1,899 68,545 Total operating expenses 77,412 60,929 49,480 128,198 65,652 Income (loss) from operations 45,766 41,324 (13,359 ) (83,464 ) (4,017 ) Other (expense) income, net (1,182 ) (635 ) (3,532 ) 1,174 (22 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15,899 (15,259 ) (586 ) 436 (31 ) Net income (loss) $ 28,685 $ 55,948 $ (16,305 ) $ (82,726 ) $ (4,008 ) Basic net income (loss) per share $ 1.26 $ 2.56 $ (0.87 ) $ (4.46 ) $ (0.22 ) Diluted net income (loss) per share $ 1.22 $ 2.43 $ (0.87 ) $ (4.46 ) $ (0.22 ) Shares used in per share computation: Basic 22,743 21,855 18,639 18,546 18,099 Diluted 23,480 22,998 18,639 18,546 18,099 (a) The fiscal year ended January 2, 2010 included 53 weeks, whereas the other periods presented included 52 weeks. 24 Table of Contents Fiscal Year End 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 97,699 $ 66,460 $ 43,526 $ 23,980 $ 14,919 Working capital 160,629 135,770 76,771 57,901 57,062 Total assets 267,221 220,025 147,470 123,854 207,076 Long-term liabilities including current portion of debt obligation 17,213 17,142 15,963 14,302 1,942 Total stockholders equity 209,992 170,849 106,754 92,767 175,844 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those presented under Risk Factors in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are an innovator in the field of metrology and inspection systems for semiconductor manufacturing and other industries. Our systems are designed to precisely monitor film thickness and critical dimensions that are necessary to control the manufacturing process and to identify defects that can affect production yields and performance. Principal factors that impact our revenue growth include capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors to increase capacity and to enable their development of new technologies, and our ability to take market share. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems, as are the adoption of optical critical dimension (OCD) metrology across fabrication processes, adoption of immersion lithography and double patterning, adoption of new types of thin film materials, the adoption of advanced packaging strategies and wafer backside inspection and the need for improved process control to drive process efficiencies. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well as to evaluate strategic acquisitions in order to address business challenges and opportunities. Our revenues are primarily derived from product sales but are also derived from customer service and system upgrades for the installed base of our products. In 2011, we derived 84.7% of our total net revenues from product sales and 15.3% of our total net revenues from services. Important Themes and Significant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by cyclical growth. Changing trends in the semiconductor industry continue to drive the need for metrology as a major component of manufacturing systems. These trends include: Proliferation of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes. Our customers use photolithographic processes to create patterns on wafers. Critical dimensions must be carefully controlled during this process. In advanced node device definition, additional monitoring of thickness and profile dimensions on these patterned structures at CMP, Etch, and Thin Film processing is driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state of the art devices. Nanometrics OCD technology is broadly adopted across NAND, DRAM, HDD, and logic semiconductor manufacturing processes. Adoption of Advanced Packaging Processes: Our customers use photolithographic, etching, metallization and wafer thinning to enable next generation advanced packaging solutions for semiconductor devices. The new packaging leads to increased functionality in smaller, less expensive form factors. Advanced packages can be broken down into high density flip chip or bump packages that increase pin density allowing for more complex I/O on advanced CPU parts. Or, similar or different devices can be stacked at the wafer level using a Through Silicon Via process. The TSV process enables high density small form factor parts, being primarily driven by mobile consumer products (i.e. cellular 25 Table of Contents telephones with integrated CMOS camera sensors). Increasingly advanced packaging technologies are being adopted by our end customers. Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials. The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to begin the replacement of the traditional aluminum etch back interconnect flows as well as conventional gate dielectric materials, all which drive a broader adoption of thin film and OCD metrology systems. To achieve greater semiconductor device speed, manufacturers have adopted copper in Logic/IDM and it is now proliferating in next generation DRAM and Flash nodes. Additionally, to achieve improved transistor performance in logic devices and higher cell densities in memory devices, new materials including high dielectric constant (or high-k) gate materials are increasingly being substituted for traditional silicon-oxide gate dielectric materials. High-k materials are comprised of complex thin films including layers of hafnium oxide and a bi-layer of thin film metals. Our advanced metrology and inspection solutions are required for control of process steps, which are critical to enable the device performance improvements that these new materials allow. Development of 3D Transistor Architectures. Our end customers continue to improve device density and performance by scaling front end of line transistor architectures. Many of these designs have buried features and high aspect ratio stacked features that enable improved performance and density. The advanced designs require additional process control to manage the complex shapes and materials properties, driving additional applications for both OCD and our Unifire systems. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies. Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting and shorter product life cycles, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and automated systems throughout the fabrication to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Reduced Number of Customers. Our market is characterized by an ongoing oligopolistic trend which drives customer concentration. The largest customer accounted for 17.6% of our total revenue in the fiscal year 2001, and the largest customer accounted for 30.0% and 23.0% of our total revenue in the fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations, impairment and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. We believe that the application of the following accounting policies requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of our accounting policies, including those discussed below, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition - We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the seller's price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from the sale of process control metrology and inspection systems (product revenue) as well as spare part sales, billable services, service contracts, and upgrades (together service revenue). Upgrades are a group of parts and/or software that change the existing configuration of a product and are included in service revenue. They are distinguished from product revenue, which consists of complete, automated process control metrology systems (the system(s)). Nanometrics' systems consist of hardware and software components that function together to deliver the essential functionality of the system. Arrangements for sales of systems often include defined customer-specified acceptance criteria. For product sales to existing customers, revenue recognition occurs when title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which usually occurs upon shipment from the Company's manufacturing location, if it can be reliably demonstrated that the product has successfully met the defined customer specified acceptance criteria and all other recognition criteria has been met. For initial sales where the Company has not previously met the defined customer specified acceptance criteria, product revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the contractual acceptance period. In Japan, where contractual terms with the customer specify risk of loss and title transfers upon customer acceptance, revenue is recognized upon receipt of written customer acceptance, provided that all other recognition criteria has been met. We warrant our products against defects in manufacturing. Upon recognition of product revenue, a liability is recorded for anticipated warranty costs. On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard warranty. In those instances where extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the contract. The portion of service contracts and extended warranty 26 Table of Contents services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue. As part of customer services, we also sell software that is considered to be an upgrade to a customer's existing systems. These standalone software upgrades are not essential to the tangible product's functionality and are accounted for under software revenue recognition rules which require vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value to allocate revenue in a multiple element arrangement. Revenue from upgrades is recognized when the upgrades are delivered to the customer, provided that all other recognition criteria have been met. Revenue related to spare parts is recognized upon shipment. Revenue related to billable services is recognized as the services are performed. Service contracts may be purchased by the customer during or after the warranty period and revenue is recognized ratably over the service contract period. Frequently, we deliver products and various services in a single transaction. Our deliverables consist of tools, installation, upgrades, billable services, spare parts, and service contracts. Our typical multi-element arrangements include a sale of one or multiple tools that include installation and standard warranty. Other arrangements may consist of a sale of tools bundled with service elements or delivery of different types of services. Tools, upgrades, and spare parts are delivered to customers within a period of up to six months from order date. Installation is usually performed soon after delivery of the tool. Billable services are billed on a time and materials basis and performed as requested by customers. Under service contract arrangements, services are provided as needed over the fixed arrangement term and such terms can be up to 12 months. We do not generally grant customers a general right of return or refund and impose a penalty on orders canceled prior to the scheduled shipment date. On January 2, 2011, we adopted the new accounting guidance for arrangements with software elements and/or multiple deliverables. The amended guidance for multiple deliverable arrangements did not change the units of accounting for our revenue transactions, and most products and services qualify as separate units of accounting. The new guidance established a hierarchy of evidence to determine the standalone selling price of a deliverable based on vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"), third party evidence ("TPE"), or best estimated selling price ("BESP"). We regularly evaluate our revenue arrangements to identify deliverables and to determine whether these deliverables are separable into multiple units of accounting. In accordance with the new guidance, we allocate the arrangement consideration among the deliverables based on relative best estimated selling price. We have established VSOE for some of our products and services when a substantial majority of selling prices falls within a narrow range when sold separately. For deliverables with no established VSOE, we use best estimated selling price to determine standalone selling price for such deliverable. We do not use TPE to determine standalone selling price since this information is not widely available in the market as our products contain a significant element of proprietary technology and the solutions offered differ substantially from our competitors. We have established a process for developing estimated selling prices, which incorporates historical selling prices, the effect of market conditions, gross margin objectives, pricing practices, as well as entity-specific factors. We monitor and evaluate estimated selling price on a regular basis to ensure that changes in circumstances are accounted for in a timely manner. The adoption of the new accounting standards did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. When certain elements in multiple-element arrangements are not delivered or accepted at the end of a reporting period, the relative selling prices of undelivered elements are deferred until these elements are delivered and/or accepted. If deliverables cannot be accounted for as separate units of accounting, the entire arrangement is accounted for as a single unit of accounting and revenue is deferred until all elements are delivered and all revenue recognition requirements are met. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make their required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of our customers. Where appropriate and available, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of customers when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors such as the length of time the receivables are past due, customary payment practices in the respective geographies and our historical collection experience with customers. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts adequately reflects our risk associated with our receivables. If however, the financial conditions of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, we would assess the necessity of recording additional allowances. This would result in additional general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination was made. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. We are exposed to a number of economic and industry-specific factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated 27 Table of Contents usage, or saleable only for amounts that are less than their carrying amounts. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our market, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. We have established inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. Once a reserve has been established, it is maintained until the part to which it relates is sold or is otherwise disposed of. Therefore, reserved inventory sale has higher gross profit margin. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales of usage, product end-of-life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Inventory includes evaluation tools placed at customer sites. For demonstration inventory, we also consider the age of the inventory and potential cost to refurbish the inventory prior to sale. Demonstration inventory is amortized over its useful life and the amortization expense is included in total depreciation and amortization on our cash flow statement. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value. If actual demand for our products deteriorates, or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional reserves may be required. Product Warranties We sell the majority of our products with a standard twelve (12)-month repair or replacement warranty from the date of acceptance or shipment date. We provide an accrual for estimated future warranty costs based upon the historical relationship of warranty costs to the cost of products sold. The estimated future warranty obligations related to product sales are reported in the period in which the related revenue is recognized. The estimated future warranty obligations are affected by the warranty periods, sales volumes, product failure rates, material usage and labor and replacement costs incurred in correcting a product failure. If actual product failure rates, material usage, labor or replacement costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty obligations would be required. For new product introductions where limited or no historical information exists, we may use warranty information from other previous product introductions to guide us in estimating our warranty accrual. The warranty accrual represents the best estimate of the amount necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date. We periodically assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty reserve and adjust the amounts in accordance with changes in these factors. Business Combinations - We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets and inventory acquired. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair value of inventory acquired by utilizing the net realizable value method which is based on the estimated sales price of the product less appropriate costs to complete and selling costs. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from sales of products, services and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; the value of the acquired company's customer relationships, as well as assumptions about the estimated useful lives of the relationships; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of assumptions, estimates or actual results associated with business combinations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets - Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives while goodwill and indefinite lived assets are not amortized but tested annually for impairment. Our impairment review process is completed as of November 30th of each year or whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that an impairment may have occurred. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we early adopted the accounting standard update for testing goodwill for impairment. The accounting standard update provides companies with the option to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If, after assessing the qualitative factors, a company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if a company concludes otherwise, then 28 Table of Contents it is required to perform the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of our reporting unit to its net book value. If the fair value is greater, then no impairment is deemed to have occurred. If the fair value is less, then the second step must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of actual impairment. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In estimating the fair value of goodwill for the Company at the reporting unit level, we make estimates and judgments about future revenues and cash flows for the reporting unit. To determine the fair value, our review process includes the income method and is based on a discounted future cash flow approach that uses estimates including the following for the reporting unit: revenue, based on assumed market growth rates and our assumed market share; estimated costs; and appropriate discount rates based on the particular reporting unit's weighted average cost of capital. Our estimates of market segment growth, our market segment share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Our business consists of both established and emerging technologies and our forecasts for emerging technologies are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information. We also consider our market capitalization on the dates of our impairment tests in determining the fair value of the respective businesses. As part of this assessment, we consider the trading value of our stock and implied value of as compared to our net assets as well as the valuation of acquired businesses. As part of the second step in determining the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, we allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amount assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. When impairment is deemed to have occurred, we will recognize an impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its implied fair value. Income Tax Assets and Liabilities We account for income taxes such that deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax accounting for assets and liabilities. Also, deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized in the future. We evaluate the deferred tax assets on a continuous basis throughout the year to determine whether or not a valuation allowance is appropriate. Factors used in this determination include future expected income and the underlying asset or liability which generated the temporary tax difference. Our income tax provision is primarily impacted by federal statutory rates, state and foreign income taxes and changes in our valuation allowance. Stock-Based Compensation We estimate the value of employee stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The expected term of options granted is calculated based on the simplified method. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock price. Restructuring Charges - There were no restructuring or related charges during the fiscal years 2011 and 2010. During the fiscal year 2009, we implemented restructuring programs based on our business strategy and recorded significant accruals in connection with the restructuring program. In connection with the plan we recorded estimated expenses for severance and other costs. Costs associated with restructuring activities are recognized when they are incurred rather than the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan in accordance with ASC 420. A liability for post-employment benefits is incurred when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated. Given the significance and complexity of restructuring activities, and the timing of the execution of such activities, the restructuring process involves periodic reassessments of the estimates made at the time the original decisions were made, including evaluating market conditions for expected disposals of assets and vacancy of space. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Results of Operations The following table presents our consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010. 29 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Net revenues: Products 84.7 % 82.2 % 64.1 % Service 15.3 17.8 35.9 Total net revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Costs of net revenues: Cost of products 38.5 35.3 34.7 Cost of service 8.0 10.3 18.2 Total costs of net revenues 46.5 45.6 52.9 Gross profit 53.5 54.4 47.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 10.1 10.1 19.1 Selling 11.7 11.3 19.6 General and administrative 10.0 9.9 19.8 Amortization of intangibles 0.7 0.8 2.0 Restructuring charge 1.5 Legal settlement 1.1 Asset impairment 0.3 2.5 Total operating expenses 33.6 32.4 64.5 Income (loss) from operations 19.9 22.0 (17.4 ) Other income (expense): Interest income 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest expense (0.6 ) (0.8 ) (2.2 ) Other, net 0.3 (2.5 ) Total other income (expense), net (0.5 ) (0.4 ) (4.6 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 19.4 21.6 (22.0 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 6.9 (8.1 ) (0.7 ) Net income (loss) 12.5 % 29.7 % 22.7 % Fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 (ended December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively) Total net revenues. Our net revenues were comprised of the following product lines (in thousands, except percent): Fiscal Year 2011 2010 Change Automated systems $ 139,261 $ 110,955 $ 28,306 25.5 % Integrated systems 25,413 17,437 7,976 45.7 % Materials characterization 30,100 26,156 3,944 15.1 % Total product revenue 194,774 154,548 40,226 26.0 % Service 35,287 33,517 1,770 5.3 % Total net revenues $ 230,061 $ 188,065 $ 41,996 22.3 % 30 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2010 2009 Change Automated systems $ 110,955 $ 36,554 $ 74,401 203.5 % Integrated systems 17,437 2,767 14,670 530.2 % Materials characterization 26,156 9,832 16,324 166.0 % Total product revenue 154,548 49,153 105,395 214.4 % Service 33,517 27,554 5,963 21.6 % Total net revenues $ 188,065 $ 76,707 $ 111,358 145.2 % In 2011, revenue from products increased by $40.2 million from 2010, principally due to increased demand from our customers associated with the expansion of their semiconductor fabrication plants, particularly in the first half of 2011. Approximately $28.3 million of the increase was attributable to sales of our Automated Systems (primarily for Atlas ). Integrated Systems accounted for approximately $8.0 million of the increase (principally 9010 Series and IMPULSE ) and Materials Characterization increased by $3.9 million. Product revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 decreased by $13.0 million compared to the third quarter of 2011 due to a general pause in spending by some of our largest customers. We do not expect this trend to continue into the first quarter of 2012. Service revenue increased by $1.8 million in 2011 principally due to increased demand for services provided under customer contracts. In 2010 the revenue from products increased by $105.4 million over the previous year, most of it attributable to increased capital spending by our customers. About $74.4 million of this increase was attributable to Automated Systems ( Atlas , NanoGen , Mosaic TM , and Lynx TM ), Materials Characterization tools accounted for $16.3 million of this increase and $14.7 million represented increased sales of Integrated Systems. Service revenue increased by $6.0 million in fiscal year 2010, compared to fiscal year 2009, a significant portion of this increase was due to increased parts sales of $4.4 million. Gross margins. Our gross margin breakdown was as follows: Fiscal Year 2011 2010 2009 Products 54.5 % 57.0 % 45.9 % Service 48.1 % 42.3 % 49.2 % The gross margin on product revenue decreased from 57.0% in 2010 to 54.5% in 2011. The decrease is due to the approximately equivalent effects of higher warranty costs and higher installation costs driven by a change in product mix, and to a lesser extent due to lower factory absorption in the fourth quarter of 2011. The gross margin on service revenue improved in 2011 from 42.3% to 48.1%, principally due to reduction in field service labor costs and refinement of our allocation of warranty and installation costs between product and services. The gross margin on product revenue increased significantly in 2010 compared to 2009 by 11.1 percentage points from 45.9% to 57.0%. Improved margins of 10.1 points were related to higher sales volume levels, which resulted in higher favorable absorption of manufacturing costs and lower warranty expense which was partially offset by increased royalties. The balance of the product margin improvement of 1.0 points was related to increased product margins due to a more favorable product mix of higher margin products. The margins on service revenue decreased from 49.2% in 2009 to 42.3% in 2010. This decrease was attributable to an 11.0 point decline in margins on upgrades and to cost increases related to hiring employees in the service organization to support the higher volume of sales and related service requirements. Operating expenses. Our operating expenses were comprised of the following categories (in thousands): 31 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2011 2010 Change Research and development $ 23,290 $ 18,973 $ 4,317 22.8 % Selling 27,019 21,320 5,699 26.7 % General and administrative 22,901 18,617 4,284 23.0 % Amortization of intangible assets 1,702 1,556 146 9.4 % Legal settlement 2,500 2,500 100.0 % Asset impairment 463 (463 ) (100.0 )% Total operating expenses $ 77,412 $ 60,929 $ 16,483 27.1 % Fiscal Year 2010 2009 Change Research and development $ 18,973 $ 14,672 $ 4,301 29.3 % Selling 21,320 15,072 6,248 41.4 % General and administrative 18,617 15,168 3,449 22.7 % Amortization of intangible assets 1,556 1,535 21 1.4 % Restructuring charge 1,134 (1,134 ) (100.0 )% Asset impairment 463 1,899 (1,436 ) (75.6 )% Total operating expenses $ 60,929 $ 49,480 $ 11,449 23.1 % Research and development. Research and development costs increased by $4.3 million or 22.8% in fiscal year 2011 compared to 2010 primarily related to development of the Atlas II TM and costs associated with the acquisition of Nanda. This increase consisted of $2.5 million of labor costs relating to increased hiring, incentive compensation and benefit costs, $1.5 million of increased engineering materials and tooling, $0.2 million from increased depreciation, and $0.1 million from consulting. Research and development costs increased by $4.3 million or 29.3% in fiscal year 2010 when compared to 2009, this increase was a result of $3.2 million increase in labor and consulting costs, $0.7 million increase in cost of facilities, and $0.4 million for engineering materials. Selling. Selling expenses increased by $5.7 million or 26.7% in fiscal year 2011 compared to 2010. Higher costs are a result of labor costs of $3.8 million related to increased hiring, compensation and benefits including commissions on higher revenues and stock-based compensation. The remainder of the increase represents principally $0.9 million increase in travel expenses due to the increased number of sales personnel and transactions, $0.4 million increase in facilities, $0.3 million increase in marketing activities, $0.2 million increase in depreciation, and $0.1 million of other costs. Selling expenses increased by $6.2 million or 41.4% in fiscal year 2010, when compared to 2009. Higher costs are a result of increased labor costs of $4.8 million including increases in salaries, bonus, commission, severance and stock-based compensation and a $1.1 million increase in travel expenses. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $4.3 million or 23.0% in fiscal year 2011 compared to 2010. The higher costs are the result of $1.8 million related to professional fees associated with the Nanda acquisition, $0.9 million increase in other professional services, $0.6 million increase in labor costs related to hiring of employees, $0.3 million increase in facilities, $0.2 million increase in depreciation, $0.2 million increase in legal expenses and $0.3 million aggregate increase in other costs including allowance for doubtful accounts, travel, and consulting services. General and administrative expenses increased by $3.4 million or 22.7% in fiscal year 2010, compared to 2009. Increases were the result of $1.5 million in bonuses to executive officers related to the financial performance in 2010, increased salary expense of $0.7 million attributed to increased headcount, a $0.7 million increase in stock-based compensation and $0.6 million increase in the cost of facilities. 32 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangibles assets in fiscal year 2011 increased by $0.1 million, compared to 2010, primarily as a result of the amortization of intangible assets acquired from Nanda, partially offset by a reduction in amortization of other intangible assets that became fully amortized in 2011. Amortization of intangibles assets in fiscal year 2010 was consistent with 2009. Legal settlement. In 2011, we incurred a one-time charge of $2.5 million associated with a one-time payment to KLA-Tencor under a settlement agreement. Restructuring charge. The restructuring process was completed in fiscal year 2009; hence there were no restructuring charges in 2011 and 2010. Conversely, as a result of increases in revenue due to the increased capital spending in the semiconductor industry, we increased our headcount in fiscal years 2010 and 2011. Asset impairment. There were no asset impairment charges in 2011. During the fiscal year 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $0.5 million related to write-offs of various IT projects, compared to an impairment charge of $1.9 million in 2009 related to the closure of our South Korea manufacturing facility. Other income (expense), net. Our other income (expense), net consisted of the following items (in thousands, except percents): Fiscal Year 2011 2010 Change Interest income $ 220 $ 107 $ 113 105.6 % Interest expense (1,336 ) (1,556 ) 220 (14.1 )% Other income (expense) (66 ) 814 (880 ) NM * Total other expense, net $ (1,182 ) $ (635 ) $ 547 86.1 % * NM = not meaningful Fiscal Year 2010 2009 Change Interest income $ 107 $ 53 $ 54 101.0 % Interest expense (1,556 ) (1,658 ) 102 (6.2 )% Other income (expense) 814 (1,927 ) 2,741 NM * Total other expense, net $ (635 ) $ (3,532 ) $ 2,897 (82.0 )% * NM = not meaningful During fiscal year 2011 interest expense decreased $0.2 million compared to fiscal year 2010, the decrease was attributed to $2.5 million of principal payments on the mortgage related to our headquarter facility. Other income decreased by $0.9 million, to $0.1 million of expense, principally as a result of $0.6 million increase in foreign exchange loss, from a gain of $0.3 million in fiscal 2010 to a loss of $0.3 million in fiscal 2011. In addition, other income in 2010 included a $0.2 million gain on the sale of fixed assets that did not recur in 2011. During fiscal year 2010 our interest expense was relatively flat compared to fiscal year 2009, the slight decrease is attributed to the pay down of $2.5 million on the mortgage related to our headquarter facility. Other income increased $2.7 million, due to a $2.0 million reduction in loss on foreign exchange from $1.7 million loss in fiscal year 2009 to $0.3 million 33 Table of Contents gain in fiscal year 2010, and due to $0.5 million change to the fair value of deferred payments to Zygo Corporation related to our acquisition of certain assets and our entry into a supply agreement with Zygo Corporation and $0.2 million gain on sale of assets compared to 2009. Provision/Benefit for income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 35.7%, (37.5)%, and (3.4)% in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The Company's provision for income taxes for 2011 of $15.9 million reflects an effective tax rate of 35.7%. This rate differs from the Federal statutory rate of 35% due to state income taxes and higher foreign tax expense due to net operating losses without current benefit, partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction and research tax credits. The Company's benefit for income taxes for 2010 of $15.2 million or 37.5% was primarily due to the decrease in the deferred income tax valuation allowance against U.S. and Japan deferred tax assets and the utilization of all of the Company's U.S. Federal net operating loss carry-forwards. The Company maintains valuation allowances when it is likely that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the Company's income tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the Company takes into account such factors as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect utilization of a deferred tax asset, carry-back and carry-forward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. Net income (loss). Our net income for the fiscal year 2011 was $28.7 million, compared to net income of $55.9 million in fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily due to the change in the income tax provision as a result of the one-time release (benefit) of a deferred income tax valuation allowance, which contributed $18.2 million to net income in 2010. The reduction in net income also was a result of the one-time expenses incurred in 2011 associated with the acquisition of Nanda and legal settlement with KLA-Tencor. These effects were partially offset by an increase in revenue. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $97.7 million and working capital was $160.6 million, compared to cash of $66.5 million and working capital of $135.8 million as of January 1, 2011. Undistributed earnings that were not previously taxed amounted to $0.8 million as of December 31, 2011. Operations During year ended December 31, 2011, cash provided by operations was $54.0 million which reflected net income of $28.7 million, non-cash transactions of $13.3 million and a $12.1 million reduction in non-cash working capital. Non-cash transactions primarily consisted of i) depreciation and amortization expense of $6.5 million ii) stock based compensation of $4.5 million, iii) excess tax benefit from equity awards of $3.9 million, iv) inventory write down of $1.9 million, and v) $3.8 million increase in deferred income taxes. Changes in working capital were mostly due to a $16.1 million decrease in receivables resulted from timing of sales and collections, an increase in inventory of $12.2 million, and a $12.4 million increase in accruals related to $4.9 million in customer deposits, $2.5 million in accrued legal settlement, and $5.0 million in accrued income taxes. During year ended January 1, 2011, cash provided by operations was $27.6 million which reflected net income of $55.9 million, partially offset by non-cash transactions of $7.5 million and a $20.8 million increase in working capital. Non-cash transactions primarily included i) $17.2 million net tax benefit, consisting primarily of a $18.2 million release of income tax valuation allowance, ii) stock based compensation of $3.0 million, iii) depreciation, amortization and impairment expense of $6.3 million, iv) increases in inventory reserves of $1.5 million. Changes in working capital were mostly due to a $21.0 million increase in receivables due to higher revenue and timing of collections, an increase of $14.5 million in inventory and a $11.5 million increase in payables and accruals as a result of tighter cash management. During year ended January 2, 2010, operating activities used cash of $5.8 million primarily as a result of our net loss of $16.3 million, offset by certain non-cash charges including $6.1 million amortization and depreciation, $1.9 million of asset impairment, and $2.1 million of stock-based compensation. On June 17, 2009, we announced a strategic business partnership with Zygo Corporation whereby we have purchased inventory and certain other assets from Zygo Corporation, and the two companies have entered into a supply agreement. We will make payments to Zygo Corporation (with an estimated present value of $2.6 million as of January 1, 2011) over a period of time as acquired inventory is sold and other aspects of the supply agreement are executed. A payment of $2.0 million of inventory and fixed assets was made to Zygo Corporation on January 7, 2010, in accordance with the terms of the acquisition agreement. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the acquisitions of products, technologies or business that are 34 Table of Contents complementary to our business. These activities may result in product and business investments, which may affect our cash position and working capital balances. Some of these activities might require significant cash outlays. Investing During the year ended December 31, 2011, investing activities accounted for the use of $27.1 million of cash, of which $23.9 million was for the acquisition of Nanda, $2.8 million was for purchases of capital equipment and $0.4 million was paid to Zygo related to royalties and sustaining engineering payments. During the year ended January 1, 2011, investing activities accounted for the use of $6.1 million of cash, of which $3.1 million was for purchases of capital equipment and patents and $3.5 million was paid to Zygo related to inventories and fixed assets associated with the Unifire acquisition. These were offset by $0.5 million of cash received from the sale of assets, primarily related to the sale of the South Korean manufacturing facility. During the year ended January 2, 2010, cash used of $0.6 million related to cash outlays of $0.8 million in capital equipment, offset by net cash received from the release of funds held in escrow in connection with our acquisition of Tevet Process Control Technologies, Ltd. (Tevet). Financing Fiscal 2011 - Financing activities contributed $4.1 million of cash, primarily attributed to $7.2 million from issuance of common stock for purchases under the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of options and a $3.9 million excess tax benefit related to equity awards. These activities were partially offset by $4.3 million used for repurchases and retirements of our common stock and $2.6 million paid on the mortgage on our corporate headquarters. Fiscal 2010 - Financing activities contributed $1.2 million of cash, primarily attributed to $5.8 million from issuance of common stock for stock options exercised and stock purchased under the employee stock purchase program, partially offset by payment of $3.0 million on the mortgage on our corporate headquarters and $2.1 million for repurchases of our common stock. Fiscal 2009 - Financing activities contributed cash of $26.0 million. Proceeds were from a follow-on public offering of our common stock of $23.3 million, plus $3.0 million from the issuance of common stock to employees under the Company's Stock Option and Stock Purchase plan. This was partially offset by $0.3 million of repayments for the Company's debt obligations. The follow-on public offering of our common stock was completed in December 2009 and net proceeds of $23.3 million were used to repay $2.0 million of certain obligations related to the Company's acquisition of certain assets of Zygo Corporation in June 2009 with the remainder used for general corporate purposes, including working capital. Line of Credit -In February 2007, we entered into a two-year agreement for a revolving line of credit facility with a maximum principal amount of $15.0 million. On April 30, 2009, we negotiated an extension to the maturity date of the revolving line of credit facility of an additional two years, to April 30, 2011. On June 15, 2009, we amended the financial covenants governing the credit facility to reduce the tangible net worth requirements, effective as of June 27, 2009. On April 13, 2010, we amended the revolving line of credit facility to (i) increase the maximum principal amount available there under from $15.0 million to $20.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of such facility by one year to April 30, 2012, and (iii) decrease the unused revolving line commitment fee from 0.25% per annum to 0.1875% per annum. The instrument governing the facility includes certain financial covenants regarding net tangible net worth. The revolving line of credit agreement includes a provision for the issuance of commercial or standby letters of credit by the bank on our behalf. The value of all letters of credit outstanding reduces the total line of credit available. The revolving line of credit is collateralized by a blanket lien on all of our domestic assets excluding intellectual property and real estate. The minimum borrowing interest rate is 5.75% per annum. The maximum borrowing allowed on the line of credit is $20.0 million. Borrowing is limited to the lesser of (a) $7.5 million plus the borrowing base or (b) $20.0 million. The borrowing base available as of December 31, 2011 was $18.1 million. As of December 31, 2011, we were not in breach of any restrictive covenants in connection with our line of credit and debt obligations. There were no borrowing against (or payments to) the line of credit during the fiscal year 2011 and 2010 and there are no amounts outstanding on this facility as of December 31, 2011 or January 1, 2011. We borrowed $7.0 million during fiscal year 2009 and repaid the amounts in full during fiscal year 2009. Although we have no current plans to request advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Mortgage Loan -In July 2008, we entered into a loan agreement with General Electric Commercial Finance ("GE") pursuant to which we borrowed $13.5 million secured, in part, by a lien on and security interest in the building and land comprising our principal offices in Milpitas, California. The loan initially bears interest at the rate of 7.18% per annum, which 35 Table of Contents rate will be reset in August 2013 to 3.03% over the weekly average yield of five-year U.S Dollar Interest Rate Swaps as published by the Federal Reserve. Monthly principal and interest payments are based on a twenty year amortization for the first sixty months and fifteen year amortization thereafter. The remaining principal balance of the loan and any accrued but unpaid interest will be due on August 1, 2018. According to the terms of the loan agreement, we can make annual pre-payments of up to 20% of the outstanding principal balance without incurring any penalty. GE subsequently sold the mortgage on March 31, 2011 to Sterling Saving Bank; however, no changes were made to the terms of the original loan agreement with GE as a result of the sale. In July 2011, we prepaid $1.95 million of the loan, representing 20% of the outstanding balance. Repurchases of Common Stock -On November 29, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase up to $10.0 million of our common stock. Share repurchases under this program may be made through open market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased is dependent on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. During 2011, the Company repurchased and retired a total of 265,040 shares of our common stock under this program at a weighted average price of $16.00 per share for total aggregate consideration of $4.3 million. As of December 31, 2011 there remained $5.0 million available for the future repurchase of shares of our common stock. During the fiscal year 2010, the Company repurchased and retired 161,492 shares of our common stock under this program at a weighted average price of $12.99 per share for total aggregate consideration of $2.1 million. Business Partnership - On June 17, 2009, we announced a strategic business partnership with Zygo Corporation whereby we have purchased inventory and certain other assets from Zygo Corporation, and the two companies entered into a supply agreement. We will make payments to Zygo Corporation (with an estimated present value of $2.6 million as of December 31, 2011) over a period of time as acquired inventory is sold and other aspects of the supply agreement are executed. We made royalty and sustaining engineering payments of $0.4 million to Zygo in each of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the acquisitions of products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our business. These activities may result in product and business investments, which may affect our cash position and working capital balances. Some of these activities might require significant cash outlays. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and borrowing availability will be sufficient to meet our needs through at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2011, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Debt obligations (1) $ 9,515 $ 1,176 $ 1,937 $ 1,623 $ 4,779 Fair value of deferred payments to Zygo Corporation related to acquisition 2,633 679 1,511 292 151 Other long-term liabilities 875 875 Operating lease obligations 4,094 1,642 1,397 695 360 Total $ 17,117 $ 3,497 $ 4,845 $ 3,485 $ 5,290 (1) Includes interest. We maintain certain open inventory purchase agreements with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply availability for key components. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. We estimate our open inventory purchase commitment as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $23.3 million. Actual 36 Table of Contents expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or cancelled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. Excluded from the contractual obligation table above, are $2.4 million of future payments related to uncertain tax positions because we cannot reliably estimate the timing of the settlements with the respective tax authorities.