Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The current severe slowing in the general economy and in the semiconductor industry have caused us recent losses and reductions in available cash, and may continue to negatively impact our financial performance. The current recession in the global economy and the current downturn in the semiconductor industry have severely impacted and could further impact customer demand for our products and our financial performance. The degree of this impact will depend on a number of factors, including whether the U.S. economy and the global economy continue a prolonged recession. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult economic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, financing may not be available or we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity or convertible debt financing, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may also experience supplier or customer issues as a result of current adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our customers have difficulties in obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could also result in an increase in bad debt expense. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. These conditions make it difficult for us to accurately predict our business. Because of the negative effects of the current recession, we may have to take further actions to reduce costs, which could reduce our ability to significantly invest in research and development at levels we believe are necessary. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we will experience additional losses and additional reductions in our cash and equivalents. Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue, and our revenue would materially decline if one or more of these customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and each year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. There are only a limited number of large companies 10 Table of Contents operating in the semiconductor industry. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If our current relationships with our large customers are impaired, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers in the future, our revenues could significantly decline. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products. We operate in the highly competitive semiconductor industry and face competition from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could impair sales of our products. Moreover, there has been merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors. These transactions by our competitors and potential competitors may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Many of our customers and potential customers in the semiconductor industry are large companies that require global support and service for their metrology systems. Some of our larger or more geographically diverse competitors might be better equipped to provide this global support. We depend on OEM suppliers for sales of our integrated metrology systems, and the loss of our OEM suppliers as customers could harm our business. We believe that sales of integrated metrology systems will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Sales of our integrated metrology systems depend upon the ability of OEMs to sell semiconductor manufacturing equipment products that include our metrology systems as components. If our OEM customers are unable to sell such products, or if they choose to focus their attention on products that do not integrate our systems, our business could suffer. If we were to lose our OEM customers for any reason, our ability to realize sales from integrated metrology systems would be diminished, which would harm our business. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and significant loss of revenue. We rely on outside vendors to manufacture many components and subassemblies. Certain components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our systems are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We do not maintain any long-term supply agreements with any of our suppliers. We have entered into arrangements with J.A. Woolam Co., Inc. for the purchase of the spectroscopic ellipsometer component incorporated into our advanced measurement systems. We also have supply agreements with MPA and Spectral Systems, and subcontract manufacturing agreements with Fox Semiconductor, IFAT and Toho Technologies. In June 2009, we signed a supply agreement with Zygo Corporation to supply OEM interferometer sensors for incorporation into the Unifire line of products as well as Nanometrics family of automated metrology systems. Our reliance on a sole or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including the following: we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components; we have reduced control over pricing and the timely delivery of components and subassemblies; and our suppliers may be unable to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. Some of our suppliers have relatively limited financial and other resources. Because the manufacturing of certain of these components and subassemblies involves extremely complex processes and requires long lead times, we may experience delays or shortages caused by our suppliers. If we were forced to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components or subassemblies internally, we could be forced to redesign our systems, which could increase our cost structure, cause production delays and prevent us from shipping our systems to customers on a timely basis. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries from our suppliers, or any other circumstance that would restrict our ability to ship our products, could damage relationships with current and prospective customers, harm our business and result in significant loss of revenue. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends on the performance of our senior management and on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in August 2007 and in September 2008, our former Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Administration, who joined us in November 2007, was replaced, on an interim basis, by Bruce Crawford, our Chief Operating Officer. Our former Chief Accounting Officer also resigned in December 2008. James P. Moniz was appointed as Chief Financial Officer (and our principal accounting officer) on February 18, 2009. Although we have employment agreements with certain key members of our senior management team, including Messrs. Stultz, Crawford and Moniz, these individuals or other key employees may still leave us. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. In addition, to support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified senior management personnel, our business could be harmed and our ability to implement our strategy could be compromised . Restructuring of our operations may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Since 2007, we have taken steps, including reductions in force, facility closures, and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost of our operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. We may take similar steps in the future to improve efficiency and match our resources with market opportunities, and as a result of such actions, we may incur restructuring expenses. In the first and third quarters of 2008, we undertook a restructuring that involved a reduction of our global workforce by approximately 30 and 34 employees, respectively, which action caused us to record restructuring and reorganization charges of $0.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively. In the first and second quarters of 2009, we reduced the global workforce further by 51 and 25 employees, respectively, and recorded restructuring charges of $0.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, the development of our technology, our supply chain and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Loss of sales, service and engineering talent, in particular, could damage our business. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. If we undertake further employee reductions or other restructuring activities, we will likely record restructuring and related expenses and accounting charges. Accounting charges may include inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, and if we are required to take a substantial charge related to any future restructuring activities, our results of operations would be adversely affected in the period in which we take such a charge. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material effect on our business. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report from management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal control report must include the following: (1) a statement of managements responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and (3) managements assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. A statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on managements internal control over financial reporting was not required for 2009 as we are not an accelerated filer. The Company will be required to obtain such an attestation report for the 2010 fiscal year. 12 Table of Contents If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility will be harmed, revenue from, and market acceptance of, our systems will decrease and we could expend significant capital and resources as a result of such defects. Notwithstanding our internal quality specifications, our systems have sometimes contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems would be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems. Defects could also lead to product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability arising from defects in our systems. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits. If we experience significant delays in shipping our products to our customers, our business and reputation may suffer. Our products are complex and require technical expertise to design and manufacture properly. Various problems occasionally arise during the manufacturing process that may cause delays and/or impair product quality. Any significant delays stemming from the failure of our products to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, or for any other reasons, would delay our shipments. Shipment delays could harm our business and reputation in the industry. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important intellectual property rights by us. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. From time to time we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our metrology systems may contain design features which are claimed to infringe on their proprietary rights. For example, in August 2005, we were served with a complaint by KLA-Tencor, or KLA, alleging that certain of our products infringe two of KLAs patents, Patent No. 6,483,580 and Patent No. 6,590,656. In January 2006, KLA added Patent No. 6,611,330 to its claim. For additional information, refer to Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Our new or current products may infringe valid intellectual property rights, but even if our products do not infringe, we may be required to expend significant sums of money to defend against infringement claims, or to actively protect our intellectual property rights through litigation. Our intellectual property may be infringed by third parties despite our efforts to protect it, which could threaten our future success and competitive position and harm our operating results. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology for our principal product families, and we rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, it will be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. We own or may license patents relating to our metrology systems, and have filed applications for additional patents. Any of our pending patent applications may be rejected, and we may not in the future be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. In addition, the patents we own, have been issued or licensed, may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Third parties may also design around these patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, in the event that these agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies. Our confidential and proprietary information and technology might also be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us, or to determine the scope or validity of a third partys patent or other proprietary rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to re-engineer our product or obtain expensive licenses from third parties, any of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 70.3%, 70.5% and 68.2%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan, South Korea, China and Taiwan. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products and our business would suffer. 13 Table of Contents Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our revenues to fluctuate widely from period to period. Our customers generally take long periods of time to evaluate our metrology systems. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems. The length of time that it takes for us to complete a sale depends upon many factors, including: the efforts of our sales force and our independent sales representatives; the complexity of the customers metrology needs; the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; the customers budgetary constraints; and the quality and sophistication of the customers current processing equipment. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time at which we recognize revenue from that customer, if at all, varies widely. Our sales cycles, including the time it takes for us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order, typically range from three to nine months. Occasionally our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly with customers in Asia who may require longer evaluation periods. During the sales cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. If we do complete a sale, customers often purchase only one of our systems and then evaluate its performance for a lengthy period of time before purchasing additional systems. The purchases are generally made through purchase orders rather than through long-term contracts. The number of additional products that a customer purchases, if any, depends on many factors, including a customers capacity requirements. The period between a customers initial purchase and any subsequent purchases is unpredictable and can vary from three months to a year or longer. Variations in the length of this period could cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Relatively small fluctuations in our system sales volume may cause our operating results to vary significantly each quarter. During any quarter, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. Our automated metrology systems range in price from approximately $200,000 to over $1,300,000 per system, and our integrated metrology systems range in price from approximately $80,000 to $500,000 per system. Accordingly, a small change in the number or mix of systems that we sell could cause significant changes in our operating results. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all systems sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders for systems to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments, and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Because of the high cost of switching equipment vendors in our markets, it may be difficult for us to attract customers from our competitors even if our metrology systems are superior to theirs. We believe that once a semiconductor customer has selected one vendors metrology system, the customer generally relies upon that system and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of the same vendors system, for the life of the application. Once a vendors metrology system has been installed, a customer must often make substantial technical modifications and may experience downtime in order to switch to another vendors metrology system. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customers expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales from that customer once it has selected another vendors system for an application. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to develop new and enhanced metrology systems we will likely lose market share to our competitors. We operate in an industry that is subject to technological changes, changes in customer demands and the introduction of new, higher performance systems with short product life cycles. To be competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new metrology systems that meet the performance and price demands of semiconductor manufacturers and suppliers. We must also continue to refine our current systems so that they remain competitive. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new systems, and we may not ultimately be successful in developing them. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. Lack of market acceptance for our new products may affect our ability to generate revenue and may harm our business. In 2008, we introduced several products to the market including the NanoCD Suite, Impulse and the Lynx platform. In 2009, we introduced the Atlas XP+ system as the follow-on to our Atlas metrology system and our Caliper Mosaic Overlay system. We have invested substantial time and resources into the development of these products. However, we cannot accurately predict the future level of acceptance of our new products by our customers. As a result, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue from sales of these products. While we anticipate that our new products will become an increasingly larger component of our business, their failure to gain acceptance with our customers could materially harm our business. Additionally, if our new products do gain market acceptance, our ability to sell our existing products may be impeded and our business would suffer. We depend on new products and processes for our success. Consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. If new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We might not be able to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. Our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. In order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sale of existing products. Moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. We are subject to risks associated with our competitors strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share. We expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. We believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to our products and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. We face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. We believe that to remain competitive we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process R&D. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. These competitors may deeply discount products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. As a result, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently expect to offer. They may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those that we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets and competition may intensify, or future competition, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows could suffer. If we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired. The business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to operating activities. During periods of growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To achieve this, from time to time we have acquired complementary businesses, products, or technologies instead of developing them ourselves and may choose to do so in the future. On June 17, 2009, we entered into a strategic partnership with Zygo under an exclusive OEM supply agreement to provide interferometer sensors to Nanometrics for incorporation into the Unifire line of products as well as Nanometrics family of automated metrology systems. In May 2008, we acquired Tevet Process Control Technologies, Ltd., an integrated metrology company serving the worldwide semiconductor and solar manufacturing industry. We do not know if we will be able to complete any additional acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate them profitably or retain their key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology that we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. In addition, in order to finance any acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity or convertible debt financing, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to integrate any acquired entities, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. We manufacture all of our systems at a limited number of facilities, and any prolonged disruption in the operations of those facilities could reduce our revenues. We produce all of our systems in our manufacturing facilities located in Milpitas, California. We use contract manufacturers in China, Israel, Japan and the United States. In addition, we perform limited subassembly for certain products at our York, England facility. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated, costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, such as those resulting from acts of war, terrorism, political instability, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disaster could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations, see Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8, Note 1. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that leads us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could 16 Table of Contents significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, our operating results have been affected by the calculation of share-based compensation expense and by the testing and potential impairment of long-lived assets such as goodwill and other intangible assets. The process of evaluating potential impairments is highly subjective and requires significant judgment, and our results of operations could vary in the future if the forecasts used in subjective assessments are inaccurate. Our operating results have varied in the past and probably will continue to vary significantly in the future, which will cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary in the future, which volatility could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our stock to extreme price and volume fluctuations include: changes in customer demand for our systems; economic conditions in the semiconductor industries; the timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders and shipments; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; our ability to recover the higher costs associated with meeting our customers increasing service demands; competitive pressures on product prices and changes in pricing by our customers or suppliers; the timing of new product announcements and product releases by us or our competitors and our ability to design, introduce and manufacture new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; the occurrence of potential impairments of long-lived assets; the timing of acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; the levels of our fixed expenses, relative to our revenue levels; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Japanese yen and the British pound sterling. If our operating results in any period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We incur significant costs as a result of complying with laws and regulations affecting public companies. Compliance with laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in and, we expect, will continue to result in substantial accounting, legal and administrative costs. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board impose requirements with respect to the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. The cost of complying with these requirements is substantial. We are highly dependent on international sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We maintain facilities in Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, South Korea, China, Israel and the European Union. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. International sales and operations carry inherent risks such as: regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments; obstacles to the protection of our intellectual property, political, military and terrorism risks; disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or other government agencies; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. 17 Table of Contents If any of these risks materialize and we are unable to manage them, our international sales and operations would suffer. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. With our operations in Japan, South Korea, the United Kingdom, Taiwan, China and Israel, a significant percentage of our cash flows are exposed to foreign currency risk. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 70.3%, 70.5% and 68.2%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from sales to customers in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia, such as Japan and South Korea. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flow. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, labeling, and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses. We may unintentionally violate environmental laws or regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by limiting our ability to engage in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which it will be more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time; limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure, which may adversely affect our operations . We rely on our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system (SYSPRO) to manage our business and accurately and timely report key data with respect to our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our IT infrastructure arising out of general use of such systems, periodic upgrades and updates, or external factors that are outside of our control. Any such disruption could adversely affect our ability to complete essential business processes, including our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other IT systems, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES At January 2, 2010, our owned or leased facilities included those described below: Type Location Square Footage Use Owned Milpitas, California 133,000 Corporate headquarters and manufacturing Owned(1) Pyongtaek-city, South Korea 39,000 Vacant Owned Milpitas, California 3,038 Corporate housing Leased Tokyo, Japan 7,500 Sales, service and corporate housing Leased Kumamoto, Japan 3,250 Sales, service and engineering Leased Osaka, Japan 1,000 Sales and service Leased Yokkaichi, Japan 1,750 Sales and service Leased York, England 20,338 Sales, service and engineering Leased Whasung-City, South Korea 4,780 Sales and service Leased Dong-Guang, Taiwan 9,400 Sales and service Leased Tainan, Taiwan 1,100 Sales and service Leased Tainan, Taiwan 700 Sales and service Leased Shanghai, China 3,000 Sales and service Leased Redhill, Singapore 1,000 Sales and service Leased Austin, Texas 1,130 Engineering, Sales and service Leased Bend, Oregon 5,200 Engineering, sales and service Leased Yokneam, Israel 2,625 Engineering, sales and service Leased Hillsboro, Oregon 6,410 Engineering, sales and service (1) Real estate improvements on this property are owned. The underlying land, however, is leased. We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate for our current needs and anticipated growth. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In August 2005, KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that certain of the Companys products infringe two of KLAs patents. On January 30, 2006, KLA added a third patent to their claim. The complaint seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction against the sale of these products as well as the recovery of monetary damages and attorneys fees. As part of its defense, the Company has filed a request for re-examination of two of the allegedly infringed KLA patents with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office (PTO). In March 2006, the Company filed a motion for and was granted a stay in the patent litigation case until such re-examination is completed. On July 28, 2008, the PTO issued a Notice of Intent to issue a Reexamination Certificate for one of the KLA patents, and subsequently on June 23, 2009 issued an additional Notice of Intent to issue a Reexamination Certificate on the second of three patents. The reexamination of the final KLA patent-in-suit remains pending and on September 21, 2009 the Company filed an additional request for re-examination relating to this patent. The case has been stayed, and the Company is waiting for a response from the Patent and Trademark Office before taking any additional action. In all three of the reexamination proceedings, the PTO has issued Office Actions rejecting numerous claims and KLA has amended the claims in response. ITEM 4. REMOVED AND RESERVED 19 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol NANO. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low bid prices per share of our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market. These quotations represent prices between dealers and do not include retail markups, markdowns or commissions and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. 2009 High Low First quarter $ 1.64 $ 1.08 Second quarter $ 2.50 $ 1.11 Third quarter $ 8.70 $ 2.56 Fourth quarter $ 13.27 $ 6.08 2008 High Low First quarter $ 9.93 $ 5.00 Second quarter $ 8.50 $ 5.75 Third quarter $ 6.09 $ 2.20 Fourth quarter $ 3.04 $ 0.80 2007 High Low First quarter $ 8.51 $ 6.63 Second quarter $ 6.94 $ 5.74 Third quarter $ 9.00 $ 6.12 Fourth quarter $ 11.71 $ 7.48 Stockholders On March 19, 2010, the last reported sales price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was $8.57 per share and there were approximately 256 holders of record of our common stock. Because brokers and the institutions on behalf of stockholders hold many of our shares of common stock, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information about the common stock that may be issued under all of our existing equity compensation plans as of January 2, 2010. 20 Table of Contents Plan category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in first column) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 2,624,990 $ 5.72 1,506,555 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(1) 328,304 $ 7.71 266,674 Total 2,953,294 $ 5.95 1,773,229 (1) The material features of the 2002 Non-statutory Stock Plan, which was adopted without the approval of security holders, is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph presentation compares cumulative five-year stockholder returns on an indexed basis, assuming a $100 initial investment and reinvestment of dividends, of (a) Nanometrics Incorporated, (b) a broad-based equity market index and (c) an industry-specific index. The broad-based equity market index used is the NASDAQ Composite Index and the industry-specific index used is the RDG Technology Composite Index. This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act. 22 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not purchase any shares of our common stock during the three and twelve months periods ended January 2, 2010. On July 26, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to $4.0 million of our common stock. Share repurchases under this program may be made through open market and privately negotiated transactions, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The stock repurchase program may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. As of January 2, 2010 there remained $1.3 million available for the future purchase of shares of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Fiscal Year 2009(a) 2008 2007 2006(b) 2005 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenues: Products $ 49,153 $ 75,596 $ 126,049 $ 80,636 $ 61,012 Service 27,554 26,505 20,241 15,738 9,531 Total net revenues 76,707 102,101 146,290 96,374 70,543 Costs of revenues: Cost of products 26,594 38,692 63,938 44,016 28,917 Cost of service 13,992 18,675 20,717 16,610 10,695 Total cost of net revenues 40,586 57,367 84,655 60,626 39,612 Gross profit 36,121 44,734 61,635 35,748 30,931 Operating expenses: Research and development 14,672 17,110 18,577 14,253 12,533 Selling 15,072 17,798 19,561 16,977 10,945 General and administrative 15,168 19,689 21,704 21,305 11,882 Amortization of intangible assets 1,535 3,531 5,782 5,338 256 Restructuring charge 1,134 1,525 2,128 Gain on sale of assets (2,100 ) Merger termination fee (8,300 ) Asset impairment and disposition 1,899 68,545 2,232 Total operating expenses 49,480 128,198 65,652 57,873 29,548 (Loss) income from operations (13,359 ) (83,464 ) (4,017 ) (22,125 ) 1,383 Other (expense) income, net (3,532 ) 1,174 (22 ) (325 ) 346 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (586 ) 436 (31 ) (323 ) 218 Net (loss) income $ (16,305 ) $ (82,726 ) $ (4,008 ) $ (22,127 ) $ 1,511 Basic net (loss) income per share $ (0.87 ) $ (4.46 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (1.47 ) $ 0.12 Diluted net (loss) income per share $ (0.87 ) $ (4.46 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (1.47 ) $ 0.11 Shares used in per share computation: Basic 18,639 18,546 18,099 15,075 12,760 Diluted 18,639 18,546 18,099 15,075 13,471 (a) The fiscal year ended January 2, 2010 included 53 weeks, whereas the other periods presented included 52 weeks. (b) We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No 123(R) Share-Based Payment, as codified by ASC 718, effective January 1, 2006. Fiscal Year End 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 43,526 $ 23,980 $ 14,919 $ 7,957 $ 45,394 Working capital 76,771 57,901 57,062 49,721 76,731 Total assets 147,470 123,854 207,076 212,376 136,300 Long-term liabilities incl. current portion of debt obligation 15,317 14,140 1,560 1,807 1,796 Total stockholders equity 106,754 92,767 175,844 174,631 120,343 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, but not limited to, those presented under Risk Factors in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are an innovator in the field of metrology systems for the semiconductor manufacturing and other industries. Our systems are designed to precisely monitor film thickness and critical dimensions that are necessary to control the manufacturing process and provide increased production yields and performance. Capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors, especially in Asia, are critical to our success. Purchases of our systems by these manufacturers are driven by the expected market demand for their new products and new applications. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems, as are the adoption of OCD metrology across fabrication processes, adoption of immersion lithography and double patterning, adoption of new types of thin film materials and the need for improved process control to drive process efficiencies. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well to evaluate strategic acquisitions in order to address business challenges and opportunities. Our revenues are primarily derived from product sales but are also derived from customer service and system upgrades for the installed base of our products. In 2009, we derived 64.1% of our total net revenues from product sales and 35.9% of our total net revenues from services. Important Themes and Significant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by cyclical growth. Changing trends in the semiconductor industry continue to drive the need for metrology as a major component of manufacturing systems. These trends include: Adoption of Advanced Packaging Processes: Our customers use photolithographic, etching, metallization, and wafer thinning to enable next generation advanced packaging solutions for semiconductor devices. The new packages lead to increased functionality in smaller, less expensive form factors. The advanced packages can be broken down into high density flip chip or bump packages that increase pin density allowing for more complex I/O on advanced CPU parts. Additionally, similar or different devices can be stacked at the wafer level using a Through Silicon Via process. The TSV process enables high density small form factor parts, being primarily driven by mobile consumer products (i.e. cellular telephones with integrated CMOS camera sensors). Increasingly advanced packaging technologies are being adopted by our end customers. Adoption of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes. Our customers use photolithographic processes to create patterns on wafers. Critical dimensions must be carefully controlled during this process. In advanced node device definition, additional monitoring of thickness and profile dimensions on these patterned structures at CMP, Etch, and Thin Film processing is driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state of the art devices. Adoption of Immersion Lithography and Development of Double Patterning for Critical Photolithographic Layers. In an effort to reduce costs and increase device performance, semiconductor manufacturers are decreasing both the die size and feature size. Both immersion processing and double patterning techniques are being implemented to achieve the requisite device linear dimension and density. The additional rigors of these technologies increase the burden on overlay and registration capability as well as critical dimension monitoring and control. These techniques are shrinking total available process windows faster than the scaling predicted by Moores Law, resulting in the need for additional metrology and process control for both overlay and OCD systems. 25 Table of Contents Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials. The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to begin the replacement of the traditional aluminum etch back interconnect flows as well as conventional gate dielectric materials, all which drive a broader adoption of thin film and OCD metrology systems. To achieve greater semiconductor device speed, manufacturers have adopted copper in Logic/IDM and it is now proliferating in next generation DRAM and Flash nodes. Additionally, to achieve improved transistor performance in logic devices and higher cell densities in memory devices, new materials including high dielectric constant (or high-k) gate materials are increasingly being substituted for traditional silicon-oxide gate dielectric materials. High-k materials are comprised of complex thin films including layers of hafnium oxide and a bi-layer of thin film metals. Our advanced metrology solutions are required for thickness control of these layers, which is critical to enable the device performance improvements that these new materials allow. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies. Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting and shorter product life cycles, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and standalone metrology systems throughout the fab to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Reduced Number of Customers. Because of the escalating cost of 300mm manufacturing facilities, fewer semiconductor manufacturers can afford the significant investment in these next generation facilities. Therefore, fewer opportunities for semiconductors equipment companies exist. Given that the available number of potential customers is decreasing, pre-existing customer relationships, product positioning and critical mass take on greater importance. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. We believe that the application of the following accounting policies requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of our accounting policies, including those discussed below, see Note 1 to The Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the sellers price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from the sale of process control metrology systems (Product revenue) as well as spare part sales, billable service, service contracts, and upgrades (together Service revenue). Upgrades are a group of parts that change the existing configuration of a product and are included in Service revenue. They are distinguished from Product revenue, which consists of complete, standalone process control metrology systems. Our systems consist of hardware and of software which is incidental to the systems. We periodically review the software element of our systems to ascertain that the software continues to be incidental. Our arrangements for sales of our systems often include customer-specified objective acceptance criteria. For product sales to existing customers, revenue recognition occurs at the time title and risk of loss transfer, which usually occurs upon delivery, if we have reliably demonstrated that the product has successfully met the defined customer specified criteria, and all other recognition criteria has been met. This occurs at the time of shipment, as our terms are FOB shipping point. For initial sales of product where we have not previously met the defined customer acceptance criteria, product revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the contractual acceptance period. In Japan, where our contractual terms with the customer specify risk of loss and title transfers upon customer acceptance, revenue is recognized upon receipt of written customer acceptance, provided that all other recognition criteria have been met. 26 Table of Contents All of our products are assembled prior to shipment to our customers. We often perform installation for our customers; however such installation is inconsequential and perfunctory as it may also be performed by third parties and is not considered essential to the functionality of the equipment. Revenue related to spare part sales is recognized upon shipment. Revenue related to billable service is recognized as the services are performed and if billable service and spare parts are sold together, revenue is recognized when both the parts are delivered and the service is completed. For service contracts, revenue is recognized ratably over the service contract period. Revenue on upgrades is recognized when the upgrade has been delivered to the customer. For initial upgrade sales where we have not previously met the defined customer acceptance criteria, if any, revenue is recognized upon the early of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the contractual acceptance period. On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard 12 month warranty. In those instances where extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the contract. The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue. Furthermore, we generally do not provide our customers with any return rights. In cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted at the same time, we defer the relative fair value of the undelivered element until that element is delivered and accepted by the customer if we have fair value of all elements. In multiple-element arrangements where we only have fair value of the undelivered elements, then we apply the residual method. In order to recognize revenue associated with delivered elements, the following criteria must be met: (a) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a standalone basis; (b) there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item(s); and (c) delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. If the arrangement does not meet all the above criteria, the entire amount of the sales contract is deferred until the criteria have been met or all elements have been delivered to the customer. Objective and reliable evidence of the fair value is based on the amounts for which we sell equivalent products or services on a standalone basis. Upon recognition of product revenue, a liability is recorded for anticipated warranty costs. Service contracts may be purchased by the customer during or after the warranty period. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of our customers. Where appropriate and available, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of customers when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors such as the length of time the receivables are past due, customary payment practices in the respective geographies and our historical collection experience with customers. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our risk associated with smaller rather than larger customers and that our reported allowances are adequate. If however, the financial conditions of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, we would assess the necessity to record additional allowances. This would result in additional general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination was made. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis), or market. We are exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage, or saleable only for amounts that are less than their carrying amounts. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our market, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. We have established inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales of usage, product end-of-life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. For demonstration inventory, we also consider the age of the inventory and potential cost to refurbish the inventory prior to sale. Demonstration inventory is amortized over its useful life and the amortization expense is included in total depreciation and amortization on our cash flow statement. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value. If actual demand for our products deteriorates, or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional reserves may be required. Inventories delivered systems We reflect the cost of systems that were invoiced upon shipment but deferred for revenue recognition purposes separate from our inventory held for sale as Inventoriesdelivered systems. 27 Table of Contents Product Warranties We sell the majority of our products with a twelve-month repair or replacement warranty from the date of acceptance which generally represents the date of shipment. We provide an accrual for estimated future warranty costs based upon the historical relationship of warranty costs to the cost of products sold. The estimated future warranty obligations related to product sales are reported in the period in which the related revenue is recognized. The estimated future warranty obligations are affected by the warranty periods, sales volumes, product failure rates, material usage and labor and replacement costs incurred in correcting a product failure. If actual product failure rates, material usage, labor or replacement costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty obligations would be required. For new product introductions where limited or no historical information exists, we may use warranty information from other previous product introductions to guide us in estimating our warranty accrual. The warranty accrual represents the best estimate of the amount necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date. We periodically assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty reserve and adjust the amounts in accordance with changes in these factors. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is initially recorded when the purchase price paid for an acquisition exceeds the estimated fair value of the net identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives while goodwill and indefinite lived assets are not amortized but tested annually for impairment. Our impairment review process is completed as of the last day of November of each year or whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that an impairment might have occurred. The standard provides for a two-step approach to determining whether and how much goodwill has been impaired. The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of Nanometrics reporting units (product and service) to its net book value. If the fair value is greater, then no impairment is deemed to have occurred. If the fair value is less, then the second step must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of actual impairment. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In estimating the fair value of Nanometrics, we make estimates and judgments about future revenues and cash flows for each reporting unit. To determine the fair value, our review process includes the income method and is based on a discounted future cash flow approach that uses estimates including the following for each reporting unit: revenue, based on assumed market growth rates and our assumed market share; estimated costs; and appropriate discount rates based on the particular business weighted average cost of capital. Our estimates of market segment growth, our market segment share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Our business consists of both established and emerging technologies and our forecasts for emerging technologies are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information. We also consider our market capitalization on the dates of our impairment tests in determining the fair value of the respective businesses. As part of the second step in determining the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, we allocate the fair value of the reporting units to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting units had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting units was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of each reporting unit over the amount assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. When impairment is deemed to have occurred, we will recognize an impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its implied fair value. Income Tax Assets and Liabilities We account for income taxes such that deferred tax assets and liabilities must be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax accounting for assets and liabilities. Also, deferred tax assets must be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future. We evaluate the deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis to determine whether or not a valuation allowance is appropriate. Factors used in this determination include future expected income and the underlying asset or liability which generated the temporary tax difference. Our income tax provision is primarily impacted by federal statutory rates, state and foreign income taxes and changes in our valuation allowance. Stock-Based Compensation We estimate the value of employee stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The expected term of options granted is calculated based on the simplified method. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock price. Restructuring Charge During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we implemented restructuring programs based on our business strategy and recorded significant accruals in connection with the restructuring program. In connection with the plan we have recorded estimated expenses for severance and other costs. Costs associated with restructuring activities have been recognized when they are incurred rather than the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. A liability for post-employment benefits is recorded when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated. 28 Table of Contents Given the significance and complexity of restructuring activities, and the timing of the execution of such activities, the restructuring process involves periodic reassessments of the estimates made at the time the original decisions were made, including evaluating market conditions for expected disposals of assets and vacancy of space. Although we believe that these estimates accurately reflect the costs of the restructuring programs, actual results may vary or differ, thereby requiring us to record additional provisions or reverse a portion of such provisions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects on results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of total net revenues for fiscal years ended January 2, 2010, December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007. Fiscal Year 2009 2008 2007 Net revenues: Products 64.1 % 74.0 % 86.2 % Service 35.9 26.0 13.8 Total net revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Costs of net revenues: Cost of products 34.7 37.9 43.7 Cost of service 18.2 18.3 14.2 Total costs of net revenues 52.9 56.2 57.9 Gross profit 47.1 43.8 42.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 19.1 16.8 12.7 Selling 19.6 17.4 13.4 General and administrative 19.8 19.3 14.8 Amortization of intangibles 2.0 3.5 3.9 Restructuring charge 1.5 1.5 1.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.4 ) Asset impairment 2.5 67.1 Total operating expenses 64.5 125.6 44.9 Loss from operations (17.4 ) (81.8 ) (2.8 ) Other income (expense): Interest income 0.1 0.2 0.1 Interest expense (2.2 ) (0.6 ) (0.1 ) Other, net (2.5 ) 1.6 Total other income (expense), net (4.6 ) 1.2 Loss before income taxes (22.0 ) (80.6 ) (2.8 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (0.7 ) 0.4 (0.1 ) Net loss (21.3 )% (81.0 )% (2.7 )% 30 Table of Contents Fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 (ended January 2, 2010, December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively) Total net revenues. Our net revenues were comprised of the following categories (in thousands, except percent): Fiscal Year 2009 2008 Change Automated Systems $ 46,386 $ 59,632 $ (13,246 ) (22.2 )% Integrated Systems 2,767 15,964 (13,197 ) (82.7 )% Total product revenue 49,153 75,596 (26,443 ) (35.0 )% Service 27,554 26,505 1,049 4.0 % Total net revenues $ 76,707 $ 102,101 $ (25,394 ) (24.9 )% Fiscal Year 2008 2007 Change Automated Systems $ 59,632 $ 97,125 $ (37,493 ) (38.6 )% Integrated Systems 15,964 28,924 (12,960 ) (44.8 )% Total product revenue 75,596 126,049 (50,453 ) (40.0 )% Service 26,505 20,241 6,264 (30.9 )% Total net revenues $ 102,101 $ 146,290 $ (44,189 ) (30.2 )% In 2009, net revenues from automated systems decreased by $13.2 million compared to the comparable period in 2008, which decreases were primarily the result of a global reduction in capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers, though in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, we experienced an increase in revenues in automated metrology, in part due to increases in multi-system orders and technology upgrades in both the memory and logic sections, strong sales of our thin-film and OCD systems, increasing traction with our Caliper Mosaic overlay product, and further penetration into high-growth segments such as high-brightness LEDs. In 2009, integrated systems decreased by $13.2 million when compared to 2008 due primarily to reduced market demand. Sales of our integrated systems are highly dependent on, and driven by, manufacturing companies expanding their capacity. Given current global economic conditions, manufacturing companies have not been expanding their capacity; and therefore, sales of our systems to these companies have declined. Service revenue improved by $1.0 million over the comparable period in 2008, primarily due to higher in-the-field tool upgrades. In 2008, net revenues from automated systems decreased by $37.5 million, and from integrated systems by $13.0 million when compared to 2007 due to global reductions in capital spending by the majority of semiconductor manufacturers. Service revenue improved by $6.3 million over 2007 primarily due to increased demand for OCD in-the-field upgrades to existing tools, as well as improved service field practices. Gross margins. Our gross margin breakdown was as follows (in percent): Fiscal Year 2009 2008 2007 Products 45.9 % 48.8 % 49.3 % Service 49.2 % 29.5 % (2.4 )% The product gross margin in 2009 moved downward from 2008, from 48.8% to 45.9%, as a result of lower revenues and also changes in product mix. Service gross margin improved in 2009 from 29.5% to 49.2% due to a significant increase in service upgrade revenues, which have a higher gross margin relative to our core service revenues. The continued operation of our core service department in a more efficient manner, including improvements to our job scheduling process also contributed to the improvement of our service gross margins. The product gross margin in 2008 moved slightly downward from 2007, from 49.3% to 48.8%, as a result of lower volume partially offset by manufacturing spending cuts. Service gross margin improved in 2008 from (2.4)% to 29.5%, with the favorable contribution from in-the-field tool upgrades, which tend to achieve higher gross margins than our core service revenues, and our focus on controlling personnel-related expenses. 31 Table of Contents Operating expenses. Our operating expenses were comprised of the following categories (in thousands): Fiscal Year 2009 2008 Change Research and development $ 14,672 $ 17,110 $ (2,438 ) (14.2 )% Selling 15,072 17,798 (2,726 ) (15.3 )% General and administrative 15,168 19,689 (4,521 ) (23.0 )% Amortization of intangible assets 1,535 3,531 (1,996 ) (56.5 )% Operating expenses before restructuring or impairment $ 46,447 $ 58,128 $ (11,681 ) (20.1 )% Restructuring charge 1,134 1,525 (391 ) (25.6 )% Asset impairment 1,899 68,545 (66,646 ) (97.2 )% Total operating expenses $ 49,480 $ 128,198 $ (78,718 ) (61.4 )% Fiscal Year 2008 2007 Change Research and development $ 17,110 $ 18,577 $ (1,467 ) (7.9 )% Selling 17,798 19,561 (1,763 ) (9.0 )% General and administrative 19,689 21,704 (2,015 ) (9.3 )% Amortization of intangible assets 3,531 5,782 (2,251 ) (38.9 )% Operating expenses before restructuring, impairment or gain on asset sale $ 58,128 $ 65,624 $ (7,496 ) (11.4 )% Restructuring charge 1,525 2,128 (603 ) (28.3 )% Asset impairment 68,545 68,545 100.0 % Gain on sale of assets (2,100 ) 2,100 (100.0 )% Total operating expenses $ 128,198 $ 65,652 $ 62,546 95.3 % Research and development. Research and development costs decreased by $2.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to lower labor costs of $2.1 million as a result of headcount reduction from 92 to 82, respectively, and forced time off, and a $0.4 million reduction in travel costs. The $1.5 million decrease in research and development expenses in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to lower patent legal fees of $0.5 million, lower stock-based compensation expense of $0.3 million and reduced outside consulting fees related to the development of next generation products of $0.3 million. Selling. Selling expenses decreased by $2.7 million in 2009 primarily due to lower labor costs of $1.5 million as a result of headcount reduction from 111 to 103, respectively, and forced time off in 2009, reduction in travel costs of $0.7 million, and lower trade show expenses of $0.2 million. Selling expenses decreased by $1.8 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Contributing to the decrease were lower commission expenses of $0.4 million, lower selling labor costs of $0.8 million, lower depreciation expenses of $0.2 million and lower costs for the Companys Taiwanese pension plan of $0.3 million. 32 Table of Contents General and administrative. General and administrative expenses decreased by $4.5 million in 2009 primarily due to lower labor costs of $3.0 million as a result of headcount reduction from 60 to 53, respectively, and forced time off in 2009, lower stock- based compensation of $0.9 million, lower costs associated with regulatory and compliance accounting of $0.7 million, and lower travel costs of $0.3 million, offset by increased legal fees of $0.7 million primarily related to the Zygo acquisition, ongoing litigation and the Option Exchange Program. General and administrative expenses decreased by $2.0 million in 2008 as a result of a $1.0 million decrease in litigation expenses, a $0.8 million decrease in headcount-related expenses as a result of a contraction of our administrative staff headcount, and a $0.6 million decrease in regulatory and compliance accounting costs. These decreases were offset by increased stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million. The decrease in litigation expenses resulted from an agreement on our patent infringement lawsuit with Nova Measuring during 2007 and the granting of a stay pending re-examination of the patents-in-suit in the KLA-Tencor litigation. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets for 2009 decreased by $2.0 million from the comparable period in 2008, primarily as a result of an impairment charge taken against these assets in 2008. Amortization of intangible assets for 2008 decreased $2.3 million from the comparable period in 2007 as impairment charges were recorded in the second and third quarters of 2008 . The reductions in the fair values were associated with certain brand names, customer relationships and developed technology. Restructuring charge. Restructuring costs decreased by $0.4 million in 2009. The restructuring charges associated with 51 and 25 employees respectively for the first and second quarter of 2009 were $0.7 million and $0.4 million. Twelve (12) of the employees terminated in the second quarter of 2009 were in connection with the closure of our South Korea manufacturing facility. The higher restructuring costs in 2008, compared to 2009, were attributed to workforce reduction of higher salaried and longer tenure employees. Restructuring costs decreased by $0.6 million in 2008. The restructuring charges associated with 30 and 34 employees respectively for the first and third quarter of 2008 were $0.9 million and $0.7 million. Costs in 2008 included amounts associated with reductions in our global workforce and was aimed at improving our variable to fixed cost ratio and elimination of overlap within our business entities. Costs in 2007 of $2.1 million were primarily associated with a write-down of our Milpitas, California machine shop and plating facility as part of a strategy to reverse manufacturing vertical integration and lower the breakeven point. Asset impairment. During 2009, we recognized an impairment charge of $1.9 million from the closure of our South Korea manufacturing facility, which closure was primarily due to the challenging economic conditions facing the semiconductor industry. See Note 4 for discussion in Assets held for sale. During 2008, we recognized an impairment charge of $54.0 million, representing a write-off of the entire amount of our previously recorded goodwill, and an impairment charge $13.1 million was recorded to reflect certain brand names and developed technology intangible assets at their fair value. We also recorded an impairment charge of $1.5 million to account for machine shop related assets at its fair value. Gain on the sale of assets. In August 2007 we entered into a contract to sell a parcel of land and building in Japan and realized a gain on the sale of $1.1 million. In addition, the sale of a condominium in California was consummated in July 2007 and we realized a gain of $0.2 million in the third quarter of 2007. We also sold other non-strategic assets during the third quarter of 2007 realizing a gain of $0.8 million. We had no asset sale gains in 2008 and 2009. 33 Table of Contents Other income (expense). Our net other income (expense) consisted of the following categories (in thousands): Fiscal Year 2009 2008 Change Interest income $ 53 $ 185 $ (132 ) (71.4 )% Interest expense (1,658 ) (635 ) (1,023 ) 161.1 % Other income (expense) (1,927 ) 1,624 (3,551 ) NM * Total other income (expense), net $ (3,532 ) $ 1,174 $ (4,706 ) NM * * NM = not meaningful Fiscal Year 2008 2007 Change Interest income $ 185 $ 202 $ (17 ) (8.4 )% Interest expense (635 ) (211 ) (424 ) 200.9 % Other income (expense) 1,624 (13 ) 1,637 NM * Total other income (expense), net $ 1,174 $ (22 ) $ 1,196 NM * * NM = not meaningful We incurred higher interest expenses from the comparable period in 2008 due to the Companys borrowing of $13.5 million in connection with a mortgage against our headquarter premises entered into during July 2008 and the imputed interest of $0.6 million on fair value of deferred payments to Zygo Corporation related to our acquisition of certain assets and entry into a supply agreement with Zygo Corporation. We incurred foreign exchange loss of $1.7 million due to exchange rate fluctuations associated with our intercompany balances among our various global entities. Interest income decreased slightly in 2008 from the comparable period in 2007 as a result of slightly higher average cash and cash equivalent balances being offset by lower yields obtained on our investments. Higher interest expense in 2008 resulted from the issuance of debt obligations in the third quarter of 2008 and the sale of receivables without recourse in Japan. Other income (expense) includes foreign exchange gains/losses, commission income and rental income and miscellaneous expenses. Higher other income in 2008 resulted from foreign exchange gains due to exchange rate fluctuations associated with foreign entities balances denominated in non-US currencies that were settled during 2008, or for intercompany balances otherwise considered non-permanent investments. Provision/Benefit for income taxes. The Companys benefit for income taxes for 2009 of $0.6 million was primarily a result of release of foreign income tax reserves and benefiting from refundable tax credits in the US and UK. A provision for income taxes for 2008 of $0.4 million was primarily a result of foreign income taxes. A benefit for income taxes in 2007 is nominal, which was primarily due to benefiting the losses of certain foreign jurisdictions where sufficient deferred tax liabilities exist. Our effective tax rate was (3.4)%, 0.5% and (0.8)% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the future, we will continue to review our expectations for future taxable income to determine the amount of valuation allowance necessary to reserve against deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources At January 2, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $43.5 million compared to $24.0 million as of December 27, 2008. At January 2, 2010, we had working capital of $76.8 million compared to $57.9 million at December 27, 2008. Operating activities used cash of $5.8 million for the twelve-month period ended January 2, 2010 primarily as a result of our net loss of $16.3 million, offset by certain non-cash charges including $6.1 million amortization and depreciation, $1.9 million of asset impairment, and $2.1 million of stock-based compensation. Operating activities provided cash of $2.4 million for the twelve-month period ended December 27, 2008 resulting from our $82.7 million net loss being offset by certain non-cash charges including $68.5 million of impairment charges for long-lived assets, $8.4 million of amortization and depreciation and $3.9 million in stock-based compensation, and increases attributable to changes in our net current assets and liabilities of $6.7 million. Operating activities provided cash of $2.9 million for the twelve-month period ended December 29, 2007 resulting from our net loss of $4.0 million being offset by certain non-cash charges such as $10.9 million of amortization and depreciation, $3.8 million of stock-based compensation and increases in working capital of $7.0 million due primarily to increases in accounts receivable of $9.5 million reflecting the increase in our revenues. 34 Table of Contents Investing activities for the twelve-month period ended January 2, 2010 used cash of $0.6 million related to cash outlays of $0.8 million in capital equipment, offset by net cash received from the release of funds held in escrow in connection with our acquisition of Tevet Process Control Technologies, Ltd. (Tevet). Investing activities for the twelve-month period ended December 27, 2008 used cash of $6.0 million primarily related to cash outlays of $3.4 million for the Tevet acquisition and capital equipment acquisitions of $3.2 million. Investing activities provided net cash of $2.4 million in 2007. In 2007, we received sales proceeds of $3.8 million from the sale of assets (see preceding discussion for Gain on sale of assets) offset by capital expenditures of $1.4 million. For the twelve-month period ended January 2, 2010, financing activities provided cash of $26.0 million. Proceeds were from a follow-on public offering of our common stock of $23.3 million, combined with $3.0 million of proceeds from the sale of Company shares to employees through the Companys Stock Option and Stock Purchase plans, and were offset by $0.3 million for repayment of debt obligation. For the twelve-month period ended December 27, 2008, financing activities provided cash of $11.8 million. Proceeds were from the issuance of $13.2 million of debt, and $0.8 million from the sale of stock from employee stock plans and purchase plan and were offset by $1.9 million used for the repurchase of our common stock and $0.2 million for debt payments. Financing activities provided net cash of $1.8 million 2007. Cash provided by financing activities for 2007 resulted from the $4.1 million of proceeds of sale of common stock under our employee stock purchase and stock option plans offset by the repayment of debt of $1.5 million and repurchases of stock of $0.7 million. In December 2009, we completed a public offering of our common stock resulting in the net proceeds of $23.3 million. We plan to use approximately $2.0 million of the net proceeds from the offering to repay certain obligations related to the Companys acquisition of certain assets of Zygo Corporation in June 2009, with the remainder to be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital. In February 2007, we entered into a two year agreement for a revolving line of credit facility with a maximum principal amount of up to $15.0 million. On April 30, 2009, Nanometrics renegotiated its revolving line of credit facility and extended the term for an additional two years, to April 30, 2011. The instrument governing the facility includes certain financial covenants regarding minimum liquidity ratio and net tangible worth. All borrowings under this credit line bear interest, at our election, at a per annum rate equal to the banks prime referenced rate plus 2.75% The revolving line of credit agreement includes a provision for the issuance of commercial or standby letters of credit by the bank on our behalf. The value of all letters of credit outstanding reduces the total line of credit available. We had no outstanding letters of credit against this line as of January 2, 2010. The revolving line of credit is collateralized by a blanket lien on all of our domestic assets excluding intellectual property and real estate. We may use the proceeds of any future borrowing under this credit facility for general corporate purposes. On June 15, 2009, we amended the financial covenants governing the credit facility to reduce the net tangible worth requirements, effective as of June 27, 2009. We borrowed $7.0 million during fiscal year 2009 and also repaid the amounts in full during fiscal year 2009. In July 2008, we entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which we borrowed $13.5 million. The loan initially bears interest at the rate of 7.18% per annum, which rate will be reset after five years to 3.03% over the weekly average yield of five-year U.S Dollar Interest Rate Swaps as published by the Federal Reserve. Monthly principal and interest payments are based on a twenty year amortization for the first sixty months and fifteen- year amortization thereafter. The remaining principal balance of the loan and any accrued but unpaid interest will be due on August 1, 2018. The loan is secured, in part, by a lien on and security interest in the building and land comprising our principal offices in Milpitas, California. On June 17, 2009, we announced a strategic business partnership with Zygo Corporation whereby Nanometrics has purchased inventory and certain other assets from Zygo Corporation and the two companies have entered into a supply agreement. The Company will make payments to Zygo Corporation (with a present value of $5.7 million as of January 2, 2010) over a period of time as acquired inventory is sold and other aspects of the supply agreement are executed. A payment of $2.0 million of inventory and fixed assets was made to Zygo Corporation on January 7, 2010, in accordance with the terms of the acquisition agreement. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the acquisitions of products, technologies or business that are complementary to our business. These activities may result in product and business investments, which may affect our cash position and working capital balances. Some of these activities might require significant cash outlays. For example in the third quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a $4.0 million stock repurchase program, of which there remains $1.3 million available for future purchases. We believe our working capital will be sufficient to meet our needs through the next twelve months. 35 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of January 2, 2010, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 13,082 $ 343 $ 764 $ 884 $ 11,091 Fair value of deferred payments to Zygo Corporation related to acquisition $ 5,688 $ 3,655 $ 957 $ 930 $ 146 Other long-term liabilities $ 847 $ $ 646 $ $ 201 Operating lease obligations $ 4,153 $ 1,317 $ 1,132 $ 691 $ 1,013 Total $ 23,770 $ 5,315 $ 3,499 $ 2,505 $ 12,451 We maintain certain open inventory purchase agreements with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply chain for key components. Our liability in these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecast time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. We estimate our open inventory purchase commitment as of January 2, 2010 was approximately $13.4 million. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or cancelled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. 36 Table of Contents