Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements, including those concerning our business momentum and future growth, acceptance of our products and services, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenues, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for, our business and the markets in which we operate, our anticipated revenue as a result of acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our current expectations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions, seasonality and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers, the global economic and political climates, difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance, the delivery performance of sole source vendors, the timing of future product releases, failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences, changes in pricing by us or our competitors, our ability to manage growth, risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable, changes in budgeted costs, our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, our ability to weather difficult economic environments, our ability to open new market opportunities and target high-margin markets, the strength/weakness of the back-end and/or front-end semiconductor market segments, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business and fully realize, or realize within the expected time frame, the expected combination benefits from the acquisitions, and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 ( 2014 10-K). The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of 16 Table of Contents this report and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our 2014 10-K in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2014 10-K. See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations for the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of high-performance control metrology, defect inspection, advanced packaging lithography, thin film metrology, and data analysis systems and software used by microelectronic device manufacturers. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing and final manufacturing through a family of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All Rudolph systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. Rudolph systems are backed by worldwide customer support. Rudolphs business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, tablet, cell phone, other personal electronic devices and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project a year-over-year increase in capital spending up to approximately 5% for 2015. Our revenues and profitability, tend to closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market. We monitor capital equipment spending through announced capital spending plans by our customers and monthly-published industry data such as the book-to-bill ratio. The book-to-bill ratio is a 3-month running statistic that compares bookings or orders placed with capital equipment suppliers to billings or shipments. A book-to-bill ratio above 1.0 shows that semiconductor device equipment manufacturers are ordering equipment at a pace that exceeds the equipment suppliers shipments for the period. The 3-month rolling average North American semiconductor equipment book-to-bill ratio was 1.1 for the month of March 2015, an increase from the book-to-bill ratio of 1.0 for the month of December 2014. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three month period ended March 31, 2015 and for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenues accounted for 46.9% , 23.9% , 41.6% , and 50.9% of our revenues, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenues to vary significantly. In addition, during a given quarter, a significant portion of our revenues may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems. The following table lists the average selling price for our systems: 17 Table of Contents System Average Selling Price Per System Macro-defect inspection and probe card and test analysis $250,000 to $1.7 million Transparent film measurement $800,000 to $1.2 million Opaque film measurements $1.0 million to $1.8 million Lithography steppers $3.0 million to $8.0 million A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from customers outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in US dollars. We expect that revenues generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from six to twenty-four months , and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenues related to these investments. Revenues. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenues were $52.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $41.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2014 , representing an increase of 26.2% . The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenues in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenues: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Systems and Software: Inspection $ 28,462 54 % $ 18,002 43 % Metrology 7,599 15 % 5,749 14 % Data Analysis and Review 7,794 15 % 5,974 14 % Lithography 21 % 3,657 9 % Parts 5,655 10 % 5,040 12 % Services 3,039 6 % 3,227 8 % Total revenue $ 52,570 100 % $ 41,649 100 % Total systems and software revenue increased 31.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due to an increase in demand for our products in advanced packaging and back-end systems. Year-over-year there was increased customer demand for our inspection systems which contributed to a higher number of inspection systems sold during the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior year. As a result, inspection systems revenue increased $10.5 million for the 2015 period compared to the 2014 period. The number of metrology systems sold during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was higher compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting in an increase in metrology systems revenue of $1.9 million for the 2015 period. Lithography system revenue decreased $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period in the prior year, as no systems were sold in the 2015 period compared to the 2014 period. We will experience quarterly volatility in revenues derived from our lithography systems until we have further market acceptance of these products. The year-over-year increase in data analysis and review software revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 of $1.8 million is primarily due to increased sales in licensing revenue from our Discover software. As a result, the increase in total systems and software revenue for the 2015 period was caused by product mix of units shipped rather than pricing changes as the average selling price of similarly configured systems has been consistent across the year-over-year periods. Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 63% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 59% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2014 . The year-over-year increase in total parts and services revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 is primarily due to increased spending by our customers on system upgrades and repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenues are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenues of $7.8 million are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets within the caption Other current liabilities at March 31, 2015 and primarily consist of $2.4 million for systems awaiting acceptance and outstanding deliverables and $5.4 million for deferred maintenance agreements. 18 Table of Contents Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, excess and obsolete inventory write-offs, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $29.0 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $21.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2014 . Our gross profit represented 55.1% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 and 51.8% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year is primarily due to an increase in software revenue which has higher margins. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expense was $10.4 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $10.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expense represented 19.7% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 24.0% of revenues for the prior year period. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 in research and development expenses primarily reflects an increase in compensation and project costs. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expense was $13.0 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to $10.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expense represented 24.7% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 25.9% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to higher one-time share-based compensation costs. Other (Income) Expense. Our other (income) expense consists of foreign currency exchange (gains) losses, net. For the three month period ended March 31, 2015 , we recorded other expense of $0.6 million , compared to other income of $0.1 million for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar increase in other expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 was primarily due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to local currencies at our foreign operations. Income Taxes . We recorded income tax provision of $1.2 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 . Our effective tax rate of 40.3% differs from the statutory rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to projected foreign tax expense in excess of foreign tax credits generated in 2015. For the three month period ended March 31, 2014, we recorded income tax benefit of $0.3 million. We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and development credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to closely monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Litigation. As discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 8 in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims, which include, among other things, our on-going litigation with ITC. In this matter, the District Court issued an order awarding ITC $3.3 million in attorneys fees which we are in the process of pursuing an appeal. An adverse judgment will not have a material impact on our results of operations and will also not have a material impact on our liquidity or financial condition. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2015 , we had $158.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $254.6 million in working capital. At December 31, 2014 , we had $157.0 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $254.5 million in working capital. Operating activities provided $9.2 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2015 was primarily a result of net income adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $9.8 million , partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.6 million . Operating activities provided $15.6 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2014 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2014 was primarily a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities of $12.0 million and a net loss adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $3.6 million . 19 Table of Contents Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2015 of $10.1 million was due to the purchase of marketable securities of $60.5 million , and capital expenditures of $1.1 million , partially offset by the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $51.4 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2014 of $41.0 million was due to the purchase of marketable securities of $69.6 million , and capital expenditures of $0.4 million , partially offset by the proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $29.0 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2015 of $6.6 million was due primarily to the repurchase of shares of our common stock, partially offset by tax benefit and proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans. For the three month period ended March 31, 2014 financing activities provided $0.1 million from tax benefit and proceeds from sales of share-based compensation plans. In July 2008 , our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 3.0 million shares of our common stock with no established end date. The authorization allows for repurchases to be made in the open market or through negotiated transactions from time to time. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock. In January 2015, our Board of Directors approved an additional 1.4 million shares to the existing repurchase authorization, bringing the total current authorization back to 3.0 million shares as of such date. At March 31, 2015, 2.4 million shares remained available for future stock repurchase under this repurchase authorization. The shares of common stock purchased under the share repurchase authorization are being retired. For further information, see Note 16 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all or a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenues and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital or secure any such additional funding on terms acceptable to us or at all.