Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Form 10-Q) of Onto Innovation Inc. (referred to in this Form 10-Q as the Company, or Onto, we, our or us) are forward-looking statements, including those concerning anticipated effects of, and future actions to be taken in response to, the COVID-19 pandemic, our business momentum and future growth, acceptance of our products and services, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and to strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenue, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements, our dependence on 19 Table of Contents cert ain significant customers and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate, our anticipated revenue as a result of acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost struc ture and cash expenditures and results of litigation. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of t he Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will, would, forecast, project and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our expectations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures being taken to limit the spread of COVID-19, including impact on demand for our products, reductions in production levels, R&D activities, and qualification activities with our customers, increased costs, disruptions to our supply chain and a decrease in availability under our credit agreement; variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions; seasonality and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers; the global economic and political climates; difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance; the delivery performance of sole source vendors; the timing of future product releases; failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences; changes in pricing by us or our competitors; our ability to manage growth; changes in management; risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable; changes in budgeted costs; our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, to weather difficult economic environments, to open new market opportunities and to target high-margin markets; the strength/weakness of the back-end and/or front-end semiconductor market segments; the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions and costs, burdens and restrictions associated with other governmental actions; the ability to successfully integrate the businesses of Rudolph Technologies, Inc. (Rudolph) and Nanometrics Incorporated (Nanometrics)promptly and effectively and to achieve the anticipated synergies and value-creation contemplated by the merger of Rudolph and Nanometrics consummated on October 25, 2019 (the Merger) within the expected time frame; unanticipated difficulties or expenditures relating to the Merger and integration of the Rudolph and Nanometrics businesses; the response of business partners and retention as a result of the Merger; the diversion of management time in connection with the integration; an increased litigation risk arising from the Merger and the outcome of any such litigation; and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (the 2019 Form 10-K) and in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. You should carefully review the cautionary statements and Risk Factors contained in the 2019 Form 10-K and in this Form 10-Q. You should also review any additional disclosures and cautionary statements and Risk Factors we include from time to time in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date that they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. The Merger On October 25, 2019, the merger of Nanometrics with Rudolph was consummated and resulted in the combined company, which was renamed as Onto Innovation Inc. Onto accounts for the Merger as a reverse acquisition using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, with Rudolph being treated as the acquiring entity for accounting purposes. Because Rudolph is treated as the accounting acquirer in the Merger, the financial statements filed with this Form 10-Q include the financial results of Rudolph for all periods presented and the financial results of the former Nanometrics for the periods on or after October 26, 2019. As used in this Form 10-Q, the terms Onto, the Company, we, us or our refer to Onto Innovation Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified or suggested by the context. Impact of COVID-19 on our Business The spread of COVID-19 during the first quarter of 2020 has caused an economic downturn on a global scale, as well as significant volatility in the financial markets. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. As of August 5, 2020, our operations have been impacted by our pandemic response, as described below, and the global nature of our workforce and our operations, but we have not experienced significant financial impact directly related to the pandemic. We have prioritized the health and safety of our employees and customers in our pandemic response. As governmental authorities implement restrictions on commercial operations, we have continued to ensure compliance with these directives while also maintaining business continuity for our essential operations. We have a global workforce. Although our 20 Table of Contents manufacturing is conducted solely in the U.S., we maintain offices in the United States, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, China, Singapore and Europe. Our operation s at these offices are subject to various governmental directives and, as a result thereof, we have instituted a work-from-home policy for these employees to the extent practical. Where our essential employees are required to continue to report to work to perform their responsibilities, we have implemented staggered shifts or otherwise adjusted work schedules to maximize our operating capacity while adhering to applicable restrictions, including recommended distancing between persons. We have also provide d our essential employees with appropriate protective equipment and have enhanced and increased cleanings at our facilities. At this time, we have not experienced any reduction in productivity, though we have incurred certain costs related to the implement ation of these policies and practices. We may take further actions that we determine to be in the best interests of our employees or as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities. We cannot at this time predict the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our financial condition and operations, although we are continuing to monitor our supply chain and orders from customers for COVID-19-related changes. Disruptions to our supply chain in connection with the sourcing of materials, equipment and engineering support, and services from geographic areas that have been impacted by COVID-19 may pose risks to our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this time of uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are continuing to serve our customers while taking every precaution to provide a safe work environment for our employees and customers. To date the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the way that we conduct business, but has not had a material adverse impact on our operations. However, the extent of the pandemics effect on our operational and financial performance will depend in large part on future developments, which cannot be predicted with confidence at this time. Future developments include the duration, scope and severity of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain or mitigate its impact, such as the extent of restrictions on gatherings and travel, the impact on governmental programs and budgets, the development of treatments or vaccines, and the resumption of widespread economic activity. Trade tensions between the United States and China may escalate as a result of COVID-19 or otherwise and could result in the imposition of additional tariffs, trade restrictions or policy changes, any of which could increase costs of our product components and pricing of, and consumer demand for, our products, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Although the inherent uncertainty of the unprecedented and rapidly evolving crisis makes it difficult to predict with any confidence the likely impact on our future operations, the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of certain risks related to COVID-19 and the international nature of our business and our operations, see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q, Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of our Q1 2020 Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 Form 10-K.. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our 2019 Form 10-K in the Items entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, we believe that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2019 Form 10-K and recent accounting pronouncements discussed in Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Table of Contents Overview We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of process control tools that perform macro-defect inspection and metrology, lithography systems, and process control analytical software used by semiconductor and advanced packaging device manufacturers. We deliver comprehensive solutions throughout the semiconductor fabrication process with our families of proprietary products that provide critical yield-enhancing information, enabling microelectronic device manufacturers to drive down costs and time to market of their devices. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing facilities, often referred to as front-end and device packaging and test facilities, or back-end manufacturing, through a portfolio of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All of our systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. In addition, our advanced process control software portfolio includes powerful solutions for standalone tools, groups of tools, or factory-wide suites to enhance productivity and achieve significant cost savings. Our systems are backed by worldwide customer service and applications support. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the six months ended June 27, 2020 and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, aggregate sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenue accounted for 55.1%, 42.7%, 18.3%, and 27.2% of our revenue, respectively. Results of Operations for the Three and Six Months Ended June 27, 2020 and June 30, 2019 Revenue. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenue of $134.9 million increased 119.4% for the three months ended June 27, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019, in which revenue totaled $61.5 million. For the six month periods ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, our revenue totaled $274.9 million and $122.4 million, respectively, representing a year-over-year increase of 124.6%. The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenue in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenue: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 27, June 30, June 27, June 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Systems and software $ 108,247 80 % $ 51,612 84 % $ 222,577 81 % $ 101,421 83 % Parts 16,329 12 % 7,073 11 % 29,904 11 % 15,150 12 % Services 10,372 8 % 2,826 5 % 22,395 8 % 5,832 5 % Total revenue $ 134,948 100 % $ 61,511 100 % $ 274,876 100 % $ 122,403 100 % Total systems and software revenue increased $121.2 million for the six months ended June 27, 2020 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to the inclusion of revenue from legacy Nanometrics for the first half of 2020. The year-over-year change in systems revenue was primarily due to the inclusion of $116.4 million of revenue from legacy Nanometrics for the period. The year-over-year increase in parts and services revenue in absolute dollars from the six months ended June 30, 2019 to the six months ended June 27, 2020 was primarily due to the inclusion of $31.1 million of parts and service revenue from legacy Nanometrics for the period. Parts and services revenue is generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, system and software product mix and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $71.6 million and $134.2 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $31.9 million and $63.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Our gross profit represented 53.0% and 48.8% of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, and 51.9% and 52.2% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the six months ended June 27, 2020, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019, is primarily due charges to cost of goods sold of $10.2 million for the sale of inventory written-up to fair value upon the Merger. 22 Table of Contents Operating Expenses. Our operating expenses consist of: Research and Development . The process control defect inspection and metrology, advanced packaging lithography, and data analysis systems and software market is characterized by continuous technological development and product innovations. We believe that the rapid and ongoing development of new products and enhancements of existing products, including the transition to copper and low-k dielectrics, wafer level packaging, the continuous shrinkage in critical dimensions, and the evolution of ultra-thin gate process control is critical to our success. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our technical, management and financial resources to research and development programs. Research and development expenditures consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of employees engaged in research, design and development activities. They also include consulting fees, the cost of related supplies and legal costs to defend our patents. Our research and development expenses were $22.2 million and $43.1 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $10.7 million and $21.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The year-over-year dollar increase from the 2019 period to the 2020 period was primarily due to the inclusion in the 2020 period of $23.1 million in research and development expense of legacy Nanometrics resulting from the Merger. We continue to maintain our commitment to investing in new product development and enhancement to existing products. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses are primarily comprised of salaries and related costs for sales and marketing personnel, as well as commissions and other non-personnel related expenses. Our sales and marketing expenses were $11.9 million and $24.9 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $5.8 million and $10.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The year-over-year dollar increase in sales and marketing expenses from the 2019 period to the 2020 period was primarily due to the inclusion in the 2020 period of $16.0 million in sales and marketing expenses of legacy Nanometrics resulting from the Merger. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses are primarily comprised of salaries and related costs for general administrative personnel, as well as other non-personnel related expenses. Our general and administrative expenses were $15.9 million and $36.1 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $9.6 million and $18.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The year-over-year dollar increase in general and administrative expenses from the 2019 period to the 2020 period was primarily due to the inclusion in the 2020 period of $17.9 million in general and administrative expenses of legacy Nanometrics resulting from the Merger. Amortization of Identifiable Intangible Assets . Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $13.7 million and $27.4 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the same periods in 2019. The year-over-year increase in amortization expense from the 2019 period to the 2020 period was due to additional amortization recorded in the 2020 period associated with additional purchased intangible assets recorded as a result of the Merger . Interest income, net . Net interest income was $0.7 million and $1.9 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, respectively, as compared to $0.9 million and $1.7 million for the same periods in 2019. The decrease in interest income for the three months ended June 27, 2020 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to lower interest rates in the 2020 period. The increase in net interest income for the six months ended June 27, 2020 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019 was due to interest earned on our marketable securities and additional interest income on a higher marketable securities balance following the Merger. Income Taxes . We recorded an income tax benefit of $6 thousand and income tax provision of $0.4 million for the three and six months ended June 27, 2020 respectively, as compared to income tax provision of $0.6 million and $1.8 million for the same periods in 2019. Our effective tax rate of 12% differs from the statutory rate of 21% for the six months ended June 27, 2020 primarily due to computed research and development credits on forecasted earning levels, the deduction related to foreign derived intangible income (FDII), as well as a one-time provision for additional withholding tax related to a dividend distribution from the Companys Korea subsidiary, offset by a one-time benefit related to the filings of our 2019 foreign income tax returns. Our effective tax rate of (0.1%) differs from the statutory rate of 21% for the three months ended June 27, 2020 primarily due to computed research and development credits on forecasted earning levels, the deduction related to foreign derived intangible income (FDII), as well as a one-time benefit related to the filings of our 2019 foreign income tax returns. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as possible further tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with business combinations, and research and development tax credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income. 23 Table of Contents We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded for certain foreign a nd state loss and credit carryforwards where the realizability of such deferred tax assets is substantially in doubt. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and de velopment credits. We consider available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in ass essing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certa in net deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted. The CARES Act includes provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of the employer portion of certain payroll taxes, net operating loss carryback periods, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. These changes did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 27, 2020, we had $312.1 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $546.2 million in working capital. At December 31, 2019, we had $320.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $555.9 million in working capital. Operating activities provided $46.9 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June 27, 2020. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the six months ended June 27, 2020 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $59.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $12.9 million. Operating activities provided $9.8 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June 30, 2019. The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 resulted primarily from net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges of $20.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided from operating assets and liabilities of $11.1 million. Investing activities provided net cash and cash equivalents of $7.3 million during the six months ended June 27, 2020 through proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $147.5 million and cash received from convertible note receivable of $2.8 million, partially offset by purchases of marketable securities of $140.4 million and capital expenditures of $2.6 million. Net cash and cash equivalents of $7.7 million were used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily for the purchases of marketable securities of $38.2 million and capital expenditures of $2.7 million, offset by proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $33.2 million. Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities during the six months ended June 27, 2020 of $55.5 million resulted from the purchase of shares of our common stock under a share repurchase authorizations of $52.0 million, tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $3.3 million and payment of contingent consideration for acquired business of $0.4 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.2 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, financing activities used $2.5 million, which resulted from payment of contingent consideration for acquired business of $1.1 million, the purchase of shares of our common stock under Rudolphs previous share repurchase authorizations of $0.7 million and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $0.7 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share based compensation plans of $0.2 million. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all of or a portion of the price of these investments or acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Following the Merger, we assumed the share repurchase authorization approved on March 14, 2019 by the former Nanometrics Board of Directors. This share repurchase authorization allows us to purchase up to $80.0 million worth of shares of our common stock. Under the terms of this share repurchase authorization, shares may be repurchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions. During the three and six months ended June 27, 2020, we repurchased 0.6 million and 1.9 million shares of common stock under this repurchase authorization and those shares were subsequently retired. At June 27, 2020, there was $28.0 million available for future share repurchases . We have a credit agreement with a bank that provides for a line of credit that is secured by the marketable securities we have with the bank. We are permitted to borrow up to 70% of the value of eligible securities held at the time the line of credit is accessed. As of June 27, 2020, the available line of credit was approximately $75.6 million with an available interest rate of 1.8%. The credit agreement is available to us until such time that either party terminates the arrangement at its discretion. To date, we have not utilized the line of credit. 24 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenue and our investment decisions, which will affect our abil ity to generate additional cash. In addition, a lthough the ultimate impact of the recent COVID-19 pandemic on our future results remains uncertain, we believe our business model and our current cash reserves leave us well-positioned to manage our business through this crisis as it continues to unfold. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital, capital exp enditures and other cash needs for the next 12 months following the filing of this Form 10-Q. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. Market conditions due to the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on our ability to access such additional funding. Our borrowing capacity under our existing line of credit is tied to the value of eligible securities held at the time of borrowing, which may be negatively impacted by market conditions due to COVID-19 and government responses thereto. In addition, a reduction in or volatility with respect to our stock price or the general market do wnturn could materially impact our ability to sell securities on favorable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.