ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this document that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding future periods, financial results, revenues, margins, growth, customers, tax rates, product performance, and the impact of accounting rules on our business and the future implications of our statements regarding goals, strategy, and similar terms. We may identify these statements by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, may, might, plan, project, will, and other similar expressions. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements, except as may otherwise be required by law. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which may be difficult to predict or beyond our control, including those factors referenced in this document, and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015. In particular our results could vary significantly based on: changes in customer and industry spending; rate and extent of changes in product mix; adoption of new products; timing of orders, shipments, and acceptance of products; our ability to secure volume supply agreements; and general economic conditions. In evaluating our business, investors should carefully consider these factors in addition to any other risks and uncertainties set forth elsewhere. The occurrence of the events described in the risk factors and elsewhere in this report as well as other risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While management believes that the discussion and analysis in this report is adequate for a fair presentation of the information presented, we recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with (i) our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015, which were included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 24, 2016, and (ii) our other filings with the SEC. We are an innovator in the field of metrology and inspection systems for semiconductor manufacturing and other industries. Our systems are designed to precisely monitor optical critical dimensions and film thickness that are necessary to control the manufacturing process and to identify defects that can affect production yields and performance. Principal factors that impact our revenue growth include capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors to increase capacity and to enable their development of new technologies, and our ability to improve market share. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems, as are the adoption of optical critical dimension (OCD) metrology across fabrication processes, immersion lithography and multiple patterning, new types of thin film materials, advanced packaging strategies and wafer backside inspection, and the need for improved process control to drive process efficiencies. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well as to evaluate strategic acquisitions to address business challenges and opportunities. Our revenues are primarily derived from product sales and system upgrades but are also derived from customer service for the installed base of our products. For the three months ended March 26, 2016, we derived 83% of our total net revenues from product sales and upgrades, and 17% of our total net revenues from services. Overview Together with our subsidiaries, we are a leading provider of advanced, high-performance process control metrology and inspection systems used primarily in the fabrication of integrated circuits, sensors, discrete components, high-brightness LEDs (HB-LED), and data storage devices. Our automated and integrated systems address numerous process control applications, including critical dimension and film thickness measurement, device topography, defect inspection, and analysis of various other film properties such as optical, electrical and material characteristics. Our process control solutions are deployed throughout the fabrication process, from front-end-of-line substrate manufacturing, to high-volume production of semiconductors and other devices, to advanced wafer-scale packaging applications. Our systems enable device manufacturers to improve yields, increase productivity and lower their manufacturing costs. Nanometrics Products We offer a diverse line of systems to address the broad range of process control requirements of the semiconductor manufacturing industry. In addition, we believe that our engineering expertise, strategic acquisitions enable us to develop and offer advanced process control solutions that, in the future, should address industry advancement and trends. 21 Automated Systems Our automated systems primarily consist of fully automated metrology systems that are employed in semiconductor production environments. The Atlas II, Atlas III, Atlas II+ and Atlas XP/Atlas XP + represent our line of high-performance metrology systems providing optical critical dimension (OCD), thin film metrology and wafer stress for transistor and interconnect metrology applications. The OCD technology is supported by our NanoCD suite of solutions including our NanoDiffract software and NanoGen TM scalable computing engine that enables visualization, modeling, and analysis of complex structures. The UniFire TM system measures multiple parameters at any given process step in the advanced packaging process flow for critical dimension, overlay, and topography applications and has recently added inspection capabilities for both front-end-of-line (FEOL) patterned wafer and advanced packaging related applications. Integrated Systems Our integrated metrology (IM) systems are installed directly onto wafer processing equipment to provide near real-time measurements for improved process control and maximum throughput. Our IM systems are sold directly to end customers. The IMPLULSE+ and IMPULSE systems represent our latest metrology platform for OCD, and thin film metrology, and have been successfully qualified on numerous independent Wafer Fabrication Equipment Suppliers platforms. Our NanoCD suite of solutions is sold in conjunction with our IMPULSE systems. Our Trajectory system provides in-line measurement of layers in thin film thickness and composition in semiconductor applications and is qualified in production with major device makers. Materials Characterization Our materials characterization products include systems that are used to monitor the physical, optical, electrical and material characteristics of discrete electronic industry, opto-electronic, HB-LED, solar PV, compound semiconductor, strained silicon and silicon-on-insulator (SOI) devices, including composition, crystal structure, layer thickness, dopant concentration, contamination and electron mobility. Our Imperia is a photoluminescence (PL) full wafer imaging and mapping system designed for high-volume compound semiconductor metrology applications including power control and photonics applications adding significant inspection and substrate metrology capability to the established PL fleet. The RPMBlue is our latest PL mapping system designed specifically for the HB-LED market, and is complemented by the RPMBlue-FS, enabling a breadth of research and development configurability. We sell Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) automated and manual systems in the QS2200/3300 and QS1200 respectively. The FTIR systems are spectrometers designed for non-destructive wafer analysis for various applications. The NanoSpec line, including the NanoSpec II, supports thin film measurement across all applications in both low volume production and research applications. We are continually working to strengthen our competitive position by developing new technologies and products in our market segment. We have expanded our product offerings to address growing applications within the semiconductor manufacturing and adjacent industries. In pursuit of our goals, we have: Introduced new products, applications, and upgrades in every core product line and primary market served; Diversified our product line and served markets through acquisitions, such as: the 2006 acquisition of Accent Optical Technologies, Inc., a supplier of overlay and thin film metrology and process control systems; the 2008 acquisition of Tevet Process Control Technologies (Tevet), an integrated metrology supplier; the 2009 acquisition of the UniFire product line from Zygo Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of AMETEK, Inc.; and the 2011 acquisition of Nanda Technologies GmbH, a supplier of high sensitivity, high throughput defect inspection systems; Continued development of new measurement and inspection technologies for advanced fabrication processes; and Researched and developed innovative applications of existing technology to new market opportunities within the solar PV, HB-LED, discrete device, and data storage industries, and advanced packaging processes. 22 Important Themes and Signifi cant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by cyclical growth. Changing trends in the semiconductor industry continue to drive the need for metrology as a major component of device manufacturing. These trends include: Proliferation of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes. Our customers use photolithographic processes to create patterns on wafers. Critical dimensions must be carefully controlled during this process. In advanced node device definition, additional monitoring of thickness and profile dimensions on these patterned structures at Chemical Mechanical Polishing, Etch, and Thin Film processing is driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state-of-the-art devices. Nanometrics OCD technology is broadly adopted across NAND, DRAM, and logic semiconductor manufacturing processes. Development of 3D Transistor Architectures. Our end customers continue to improve device density and performance by scaling FEOL transistor architectures. Many of these designs, including FinFET transistors and 3D-NAND, have buried features and high aspect ratio stacked features that enable improved performance and density. The advanced designs require additional process control to manage the complex shapes and materials properties, driving additional applications for both OCD and our UniFire systems. Adoption of Advanced Packaging Processes. Our customers use photolithography, etching, metallization and wafer thinning to enable next generation advanced packaging solutions for semiconductor devices. These new packaging techniques lead to increased functionality in smaller, less expensive form factors. Advanced packages can be broken down into high density flip chip or bump packages that increase pin density allowing for more complex I/O on advanced CPU parts. Similar or different devices can be stacked at the wafer level using a Through Silicon Via (TSV) process. The TSV process enables high density small form factor parts, being primarily driven by mobile consumer products (e.g. cellular telephones with integrated CMOS camera sensors). Increasingly advanced packaging technologies are being adopted by our end customers. Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials. The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to begin the replacement of traditional aluminum etch back interconnect flows, as well as conventional gate dielectric materials, with new materials and processes that are driving broader adoption of thin film and OCD metrology systems. To achieve greater semiconductor device speed, manufacturers have adopted copper in Logic/IDM and it is now proliferating in next generation DRAM and Flash nodes. Additionally, to achieve improved transistor performance in logic devices and higher cell densities in memory devices, new materials including high dielectric constant (or high-k) gate materials are increasingly being substituted for traditional silicon-oxide gate dielectric materials. High-k materials comprise complex thin films including layers of hafnium oxide and a bi-layer of thin film metals. Our advanced metrology and inspection solutions are required for control of process steps, which are critical to enable the device performance improvements that these new materials allow. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies. Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting, shorter product life cycles and time to market, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and automated systems throughout the fabrication process to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations, impairment and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 26, 2016. Please refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015 for a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies. 23 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects or anticipated effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Upgrade Revenue and Related Cost During the first quarter of 2016, revenues associated with upgrade sales are now included under Products Revenues, and the related costs in Cost of Products Revenue. This change was due to the types of upgrades currently being sold, which are primarily system software and hardware performance upgrades to extend the features and functionality of a product. Previously upgrades consisted of a group of parts and/or software that change the existing configuration of a product. For the three months ended March 28, 2015, $4.6 million related to upgrade sales, and $1.8 million of costs, are in included in Service Revenues and Costs of Service Revenues . Results of Operations Net Revenues Our net revenues comprised the following product lines (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Change Automated systems $ 28,614 $ 30,506 $ (1,892 ) -6.2 % Integrated systems 8,293 4,725 $ 3,568 75.5 % Materials characterization systems 2,307 3,108 $ (801 ) -25.8 % Total product revenue 39,214 38,339 $ 875 2.3 % Service 8,275 12,037 $ (3,762 ) -31.3 % Total net revenues $ 47,489 $ 50,376 $ (2,887 ) -5.7 % For the three months ended March 26, 2016, total net revenues decreased by $2.9 million relative to the comparable 2015 period. For 2016, upgrade sales are included in Product Revenues. For the three months ended March 28, 2015, Product Revenues do not include $4.6 million related to upgrade sales, which are included in Service Revenues. Had upgrade sales been included in Product Revenues in 2015, Product Revenues would have decreased by $3.7 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to sales of our Automated Systems (principally the Atlas line), which declined by $6.3 million due primarily to a decline in revenue from our customers in the DRAM and Logic markets, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our customers in the 3D-NAND market, and sales of our Materials Characterization systems, which declined by $0.9 million. The overall decrease was partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in Integrated Systems sales (principally IMPULSE) due principally to an increase in revenue from our customers in the 3D-NAND market, and a $0.8 million increase in service revenues. Capital spending by our customers is dependent on the timing of new semiconductor fabrication plants, capacity expansion within existing plants, and the adoption of new technology for current and future manufacturing needs. Future results will vary significantly based on changes in any of these factors. With a significant portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity located in Asia, a substantial portion of our revenues continue to be generated in that region. Although sales to customers within individual countries of that region will vary from time to time, we expect that a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in Asia. Gross margin Our gross margin breakdown was as follows: Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Products 52.8 % 46.2 % Service 45.8 % 47.1 % The calculation of product gross margin includes both cost of products, and in 2016, related upgrades, and amortization of intangibles. The gross margin on product revenue increased to 52.8% in the three months ended March 26, 2016 from 46.2% in the three months ended March 28, 2015, reflecting an increase of 6.6 percentage points from the comparable 2015 period. Had upgrade sales and related cost been included in Product Revenues and Cost of Product Revenues, Product Gross Margin for the three months ended March 28, 2015 would have been 47.8%. The increase in 2016 of 5.0 percentage points over this amount was due to a change in product mix to higher margin products and upgrades, as well as improved factory utilization during the three months ended March 26, 24 2016. The gross margin on our services business decreased to 45.8% in the three months ended March 26, 2016 from 47.1% in the three months ended March 28, 2015, reflecting a decrease of 1.3 percentage points. Had upgrade sales and related cost been excl uded from Service Revenues and Cost of Service Revenues, Service Gross Margin for the three months ended March 28, 2015, would have been 38.4%. The increase in 2016 over this amount was due to increase in the service revenues on relatively flat costs. Operating expenses Our operating expenses comprised the following categories (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Change Research and Development $ 8,068 $ 8,159 $ (91 ) -1.1 % Selling 7,249 7,116 133 1.9 % General and administrative 5,420 5,767 (347 ) -6.0 % Amortization of intangible assets 24 38 (14 ) -36.8 % Restructuring charge 58 (58 ) NM* Total operating expenses $ 20,761 $ 21,138 $ (377 ) -1.8 % * NM = not meaningful Research and development Research and development costs decreased by $0.1 million or 1.1% in the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 28, 2015 due primarily to a lower level of non-recurring engineering expenses. Selling Selling expenses increased by $0.1 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 28, 2015 due to an increase in product and service support offset by a decrease in utilization of sales application personnel for installation and warranty, which is included in cost of net revenues. General and administrative General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.3 million or 6.0% in the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 28, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the reduction in professional fees and consulting expenditures. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets included in operating expenses in the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 28, 2015 decreased as a result of the reduction in amortization due to intangible assets that became fully amortized. Restructuring charge. No restructuring charges were recorded during the three months ended March 26, 2016. 25 We recorded a restructuring charge of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 related to our efforts to improve operating ef ficiencies. We completed the restructuring plan in March 2015. Other income, net. Our other income, net, consisted of the following items (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Change Interest Income $ 9 $ 10 $ (1 ) -10.0 % Interest Expense (117 ) (82 ) (35 ) 42.7 % Other income (expense) 225 704 (479 ) -68.0 % Total other income (expense), net $ 117 $ 632 $ (515 ) -81.5 % Other income declined by $0.5 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 relative to the comparable 2015 period principally due to the revaluation of intercompany balances based on fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, and hedging gains and losses. Provision for income taxes. We recorded a tax provision of $0.4 million and $0.3 million in three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015, respectively. The increase in the tax provision for 2016 from 2015 was primarily related to an increase in foreign earnings for the three months ended March 26, 2016. Our provision for income taxes for the quarter ended March 26, 2016 of $0.4 million reflects an effective tax rate of 9.9%. This rate differs from the Federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to all our foreign income being subject to tax at lower rates and a tax benefit associated with a change in our valuation allowance as we continue to utilize our deferred tax assets during the three months ended March 26, 2016. As of March 26, 2016, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets as a result of uncertainties regarding the realization of the asset due to cumulative losses and uncertainty of future taxable income. We will continue to assess the realizability of the deferred tax assets in each of the applicable jurisdictions and maintain the valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support a reversal. In the event we determine that the deferred tax assets are realizable, an adjustment to the valuation allowance will be reflected in the tax provision for the period such determination is made. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months that positive evidence will be sufficient to release a material amount of the Companys valuation allowance. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release are subject to change on the basis of the level of profitability that the Company is able to actually achieve. The Company will continue to evaluate the release of the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states including California, and foreign jurisdictions including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and China. Due to tax attribute carry-forwards, we are subject to examination for tax years 2003 forward for U.S. tax purposes. We are also subject to examination in various states for tax years 2002 forward. We are subject to examination for tax years 2007 forward for various foreign jurisdictions. We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. The total amount of penalties and interest were not material as of March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015. During the next twelve months, we anticipate increases in our unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.1 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following tables present selected financial information and statistics as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015 and for the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 (in millions): As of March 26, 2016 December 26, 2015 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 83.3 $ 83.1 Working capital $ 140.4 $ 132.9 26 Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 0.5 $ (5.9 ) Cash used in investing activities $ (0.4 ) $ (0.4 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 0.2 $ (0.4 ) We believe our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next twelve months. During the three months ended March 26, 2016, cash provided by operating activities of $0.5 million was a result of $3.5 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $4.6 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.6 million. Cash used in investing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted primarily of cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.6 million, partially offset by cash provided by maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $0.2 million. Cash provided by financing activities of $0.2 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted primarily of royalty and other payments to Zygo of $0.1 million, and cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards of $0.7 million, offset by $1.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 28, 2015, cash used in operating activities of $5.9 million was a result of $2.6 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $4.9 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $13.3 million. Cash used in investing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted primarily of cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.5 million, partially offset by cash provided by maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $0.1 million. Cash used in financing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $1.7 million, royalty and other payments to Zygo of $0.2 million, and cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards of $0.8 million, partially offset by $2.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options. Debt and Business Partnership Payments Line of Credit - On May 30, 2014, we amended our revolving line of credit facility with Comerica Bank principally (i) to extend the maturity date of such facility by two years to May 30, 2016, and (ii) to increase the minimum amount available to borrow to $12.0 million. The instrument governing the line of credit facility includes certain financial covenants regarding tangible net worth. The revolving line of credit agreement includes a provision for the issuance of commercial or standby letters of credit by the bank on our behalf. The value of all letters of credit outstanding reduces the total line of credit available. The revolving line of credit is collateralized by a blanket lien on all of our domestic assets excluding intellectual property and real estate. The minimum borrowing interest rate is 3.00% per annum. Borrowing is limited to the lesser of (a) $12.0 million plus the borrowing base, or (b) $20.0 million. The total borrowing available as of March 26, 2016 was $18.0 million. As of March 26, 2016, we were not in breach of any restrictive covenants in connection with this line of credit. There were no borrowings against the line of credit during the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 and there were no outstanding amounts drawn on this facility as of March 26, 2016. Although we have no current plans to request advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Business Partnership - On June 17, 2009, we announced a strategic business partnership with Zygo Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMETEK, Inc. whereby we have purchased inventory and certain other assets from Zygo Corporation, and the two companies entered into a supply agreement. We will make payments to Zygo Corporation (with an estimated present value of $1.4 million as of March 26, 2016 and $1.5 million as of December 26, 2015) over a period of time as acquired inventory is sold and other aspects of the supply agreement are executed. We made royalty and sustaining engineering payments of $0.1 million and $0.2 million to Zygo in three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015, respectively. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the acquisitions of products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our business. These activities may result in product and business investments, which may affect our cash position and working capital balances. Some of these activities might require significant cash outlays. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, cash flow generated from our operations, and, to a lesser extent, borrowings from a line of credit. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including those that relate to our specific operations and those that relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the sectors of the 27 semiconductor industry which we operate in. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and borrowing availability, combined with cash currently projected to be generated from our operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs through at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 26, 2016, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of our business from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.