Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Rudolph Technologies, Inc. (the Company or Rudolph) are forward-looking statements, including those concerning our business momentum and future growth, acceptance of our products and services, our ability to deliver both products and services consistent with our customers demands and expectations and strengthen our market position, our expectations of the semiconductor market outlook, future revenues, gross profits, research and development and engineering expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses, product introductions, technology development, manufacturing practices, cash requirements, our dependence on certain significant customers and anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate, our anticipated revenue as a result of acquisitions, and our ability to be successful in managing our cost structure and cash expenditures and results of litigation. The statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as, but not limited to, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, should, may, could, will and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to our management or us. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our expectations with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: variations in the level of orders which can be affected by general economic conditions, seasonality and growth rates in the semiconductor manufacturing industry and in the markets served by our customers, the global economic and political climates, difficulties or delays in product functionality or performance, the delivery performance of sole source vendors, the timing of future product releases, failure to respond adequately to either changes in technology or customer preferences, changes in pricing by us or our competitors, our ability to manage growth, changes in management, risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable, changes in budgeted costs, our ability to leverage our resources to improve our position in our core markets, our ability to weather difficult economic environments, our ability to open new market opportunities and target high-margin markets, the strength/weakness of the back-end and/or front-end semiconductor market segments, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business and fully realize, or realize within the expected time frame, the expected combination benefits from the acquisitions, and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 ( 2016 10-K) and any subsequent filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements reflect our position as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of our condensed consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make judgments and assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates we could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within our control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. Certain of these uncertainties are discussed in our 2016 10-K in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Based on a critical 17 Table of Contents assessment of our accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, we believe that our condensed consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and provide a fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. For more information, please see our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our 2016 10-K. See Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial position and results of operations. Overview We are a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of process control defect inspection and metrology, advanced packaging lithography, and data analysis systems and software used by microelectronic device manufacturers. We provide process and yield management solutions used in both wafer processing and final manufacturing through a family of standalone systems for macro-defect inspection, lithography, probe card test and analysis, and transparent and opaque thin film measurements. All Rudolph systems feature sophisticated software and production-worthy automation. Rudolph systems are backed by worldwide customer support. Our business is affected by the annual spending patterns of our customers on semiconductor capital equipment. The amount that our customers devote to capital equipment spending depends on a number of factors, including general worldwide economic conditions as well as other economic drivers such as personal computer, tablet, cell phone, other personal electronic devices and automotive sales. Current forecasts by industry analysts for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry project year-over-year increase in capital equipment spending of approximately 3% - 11% for 2017. Our revenues and profitability tend to follow the trends of certain segments within the semiconductor market. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and we expect this trend to continue. For the three month period ended March 31, 2017 and for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , sales to customers that individually represented at least five percent of our revenues accounted for 37.9% , 34.5% , 23.3% , and 23.9% of our revenues, respectively. We do not have purchase contracts with any of our customers that obligate them to continue to purchase our products, and they could cease purchasing products from us at any time. A delay in purchase or a cancellation by any of our large customers could cause quarterly revenues to vary significantly. In addition, during a given quarter, a significant portion of our revenues may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems, with one customer accounting for 17.2% of our total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2017. The following table lists the average selling price for our systems: System Average Selling Price Per System Process Control $250,000 to $1.8 million Lithography steppers $3.0 million to $8.0 million A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from customers outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We expect that revenues generated from customers outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. The sales cycle for our systems typically ranges from six to twenty-four months , and can be longer when our customers are evaluating new technology. Due to the length of these cycles, we invest significantly in research and development and sales and marketing in advance of generating revenues related to these investments. Results of Operations for the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenues. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of our systems, services, spare parts and software licensing. Our revenues of $60.7 million increased 11.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior year when revenues totaled $54.4 million . The following table lists, for the periods indicated, the different sources of our revenues in dollars (thousands) and as percentages of our total revenues: 18 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Systems and software: Process Control $ 43,876 72 % $ 36,459 67 % Lithography 17 % 170 % Software 7,498 13 % 7,422 14 % Parts 6,330 10 % 7,160 13 % Services 2,958 5 % 3,151 6 % Total revenue $ 60,679 100 % $ 54,362 100 % Total systems and software revenue increased $7.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Process control system revenue increased $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher metrology system sales in the 2017 period. Software revenue increased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to three months ended March 31, 2016 . Systems revenue generated by our latest product releases and major enhancements in each of our product families amounted to 69% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 68% of total revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 . The year-over-year decrease in total parts and services revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , is primarily due to decreased spending by our customers on system upgrades and repairs of existing systems. Parts and services revenues are generated from part sales, maintenance service contracts, system upgrades, as well as time and material billable service calls. Deferred revenues of $7.8 million were recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet within the caption Deferred revenue and $1.1 million were recorded in Other non-current liabilities at March 31, 2017 . Deferred revenue primarily consisted of $6.1 million for deferred maintenance agreements and $2.8 million for outstanding deliverables. Gross Profit. Our gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including manufacturing efficiencies, provision for excess and obsolete inventory, pricing by competitors or suppliers, new product introductions, production volume, customization and reconfiguration of systems, international and domestic sales mix, system and software product mix and parts and service margins. Our gross profit was $31.9 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $29.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Our gross profit represented 52.5% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 . For the three months ended March 31, 2016, gross profit represented 53.4% of our revenues. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in the prior year is primarily due to a change in our product sales mix. Operating Expenses. Major components of operating expenses include research and development as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expense was $12.0 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $12.4 million for the same period in the prior year. Research and development expense represented 19.8% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 22.9% of revenues for the prior year period. Research and development expenses decreased for the three month period year-over-year due to decreased litigation and project costs. Selling, General and Administrative . Our selling, general and administrative expense was $9.7 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $9.5 million for the same period in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expense represented 15.9% of our revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 17.5% of our revenues for the same period in the prior year. The year-over-year dollar increase for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs. Income Taxes . We recorded an income tax provision of $2.5 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 . Our effective tax rate of 25.6% differs from the statutory rate of 35% for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to a projected IRC Section 199 manufacturing deduction, research and development credit and an excess tax benefit for stock compensation related to the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-09. For the three month period ended March 31, 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $5.6 million . We currently have a partial valuation allowance recorded for certain foreign and state loss and credit carryforwards where the realizability of such deferred tax assets is substantially in doubt. Each quarter we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets primarily relating to state research and development credits. We consider available evidence, both 19 Table of Contents positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As a result of our analysis, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a portion of our net deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, we continue to provide a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets. We continue to monitor available evidence and may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance in future periods, if appropriate. Litigation. As discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings of our 2016 10-K and Note 8 in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are subject to separate legal proceedings and claims, which include, among other things, our litigation with Camtek, Ltd. (Camtek). Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2017 , we had $137.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $236.5 million in working capital. At December 31, 2016 , we had $125.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and $226.7 million in working capital. Operating activities provided $14.2 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2017 was primarily a result of net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $11.1 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million . Operating activities used $6.0 million in net cash and cash equivalents for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 . The net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2016 was primarily a result of a net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of non-cash operating charges, of $4.0 million , partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $10.0 million. Net cash and cash equivalents provided by investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2017 of $1.2 million was due to proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $25.4 million , partially offset by the purchase of marketable securities of $22.4 million and capital expenditures of $1.7 million . Net cash and cash equivalents provided by investing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2016 of $5.3 million was due to proceeds from sales of marketable securities of $51.1 million , partially offset by the purchase of marketable securities of $44.3 million and capital expenditures of $1.5 million . Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2017 of $1.7 million was due primarily to the redemption of stock warrants of $1.0 million and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $0.8 million , partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans of $0.1 million . For the three month period ended March 31, 2016 , financing activities used $6.2 million , resulting primarily from the repurchases of shares of our common stock of $4.7 million and tax payments related to shares withheld for share-based compensation plans of $1.5 million , partially offset by proceeds from sales of shares through share-based compensation plans. From time to time, we evaluate whether to acquire new or complementary businesses, products and/or technologies. We may fund all of a portion of the purchase price of these acquisitions in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. In January 2015 , our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 3.0 million shares of our common stock with no established end date. The authorization allows for repurchases to be made in the open market or through negotiated transactions from time to time. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, no shares of common stock were repurchased. At March 31, 2017 , 0.7 million shares remained available for future stock repurchase under this repurchase authorization. Shares of common stock purchased under the share repurchase authorization are being retired. For further information, see Note 15 in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. We have a credit agreement with a bank that provides for a line of credit which is secured by the marketable securities we have with the bank. We are permitted to borrow up to 70% of the value of eligible securities held at the time the line of credit is accessed. The available line of credit as of March 31, 2017 was approximately $72 million with an available interest rate of 2.5%. The credit agreement is available to us until such time that either party terminates the arrangement at their discretion. We have not utilized the line of credit to date. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and amount of our revenues and our investment decisions, which will affect our ability to generate additional cash. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs for the next twelve months. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations and financing activities is insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements, we may seek additional funding through bank borrowings, sales of securities or other means. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. 20 Table of Contents