ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this document that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding future periods, financial results, revenues, margins, growth, customers, tax rates, product performance, and the impact of accounting rules on our business and the future implications of our statements regarding goals, strategy, and similar terms. We may identify these statements by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, may, might, plan, project, will, and other similar expressions. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements, except as may otherwise be required by law. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, many of which may be difficult to predict or beyond our control, including those factors referenced in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this document, and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2014. In particular our results could vary significantly based on: changes in customer and industry spending; rate and extent of changes in product mix; adoption of new products; timing of orders, shipments, and acceptance of products; our ability to secure volume supply agreements; and general economic conditions. In evaluating our business, investors should carefully consider these factors in addition to any other risks and uncertainties set forth elsewhere. The occurrence of the events described in the risk factors and elsewhere in this report as well as other risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While management believes that the discussion and analysis in this report is adequate for a fair presentation of the information presented, we recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with (i) our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2014, which were included in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 25, 2015, and (ii) our other filings with the SEC. We are an innovator in the field of metrology and inspection systems for semiconductor manufacturing and other industries. Our systems are designed to precisely monitor optical critical dimensions and film thickness that are necessary to control the manufacturing process and to identify defects that can affect production yields and performance. Principal factors that impact our revenue growth include capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors to increase capacity and to enable their development of new technologies, and our ability to improve market share. The increasing complexity of the manufacturing processes for semiconductors is an important factor in the demand for our innovative metrology systems, as are the adoption of optical critical dimension (OCD) metrology across fabrication processes, immersion lithography and multiple patterning, new types of thin film materials, advanced packaging strategies and wafer backside inspection, and the need for improved process control to drive process efficiencies. Our strategy is to continue to innovate organically as well as to evaluate strategic acquisitions to address business challenges and opportunities. Our revenues are primarily derived from product sales but are also derived from customer service and system upgrades for the installed base of our products. For the three months ended March 28, 2015, we derived 76% of our total net revenues from product sales and 24% of our total net revenues from services and upgrades. Overview Together with our subsidiaries, we are a leading provider of advanced, high-performance process control metrology and inspection systems used primarily in the fabrication of integrated circuits, high-brightness LEDs (HB-LED), discrete components and hard disk drive components. Our automated and integrated systems address numerous process control applications, including critical dimension and film thickness measurement, device topography, defect inspection, and analysis of various other film properties such as optical, electrical and material characteristics. Our process control solutions are deployed throughout the fabrication process, from front-end-of-line substrate manufacturing, to high-volume production of semiconductors and other devices, to advanced wafer-scale packaging applications. Our systems enable device manufacturers to improve yields, increase productivity and lower their manufacturing costs. 21 Table of Contents Nanometrics Products We offer a diverse line of systems to address the broad range of process control requirements of the semiconductor manufacturing industry. In addition, we believe that our engineering expertise, strategic acquisitions, supplier alliances and short-cycle production strategies enable us to develop and offer advanced process control solutions that, in the future, should address industry advancement and trends. Automated Systems Our automated systems primarily consist of fully automated metrology systems that are employed in high-volume semiconductor production environments, as well as in research and development ("R&D") and pilot production. The Atlas II, Atlas II+, Atlas XP/Atlas XP + and Atlas-M represent our line of high-performance metrology systems providing optical critical dimension (OCD), thin film metrology and wafer stress for transistor and interconnect metrology applications. The OCD technology is supported by our NanoCD suite of solutions including our NanoDiffract software and NanoGen TM scalable computing engine that enables visualization, modeling, and analysis of complex structures. The UniFire TM system enables users to measure multiple parameters at any given process step in the advanced packaging process flow for critical dimension, overlay, and topography applications. Our SPARK TM defect inspection system, offers ultra-fast inspection of patterned and unpatterned semiconductor wafers. Integrated Systems Our integrated metrology (IM) systems are installed directly onto wafer processing equipment to provide near real-time measurements for improved process control and maximum throughput. Our IM systems are sold directly to end customers and through OEM channels. The IMPULSE system is our latest metrology platform for OCD, and thin film metrology, and has been successfully qualified on numerous OEM platforms. Our 90x0 system is qualified for OEM and direct sales supporting thin film and OCD applications. Our NanoCD suite of solutions is sold in conjunction with our IMPULSE and legacy 90x0 systems. Our Trajectory system provides in-line measurement of layers in thin film thickness and composition in semiconductor applications. System Platform The Lynx platform enables cluster metrology factory automation for improved cost of ownership to our customers by combining our Atlas II+ and IMPULSE , UniFire metrology and SPARK inspection systems in configurations to provide high throughput, reduced footprint systems for leading 300mm wafer metrology applications including OCD and thin film process control. Materials Characterization Our materials characterization products include systems that are used to monitor the physical, optical, electrical and material characteristics of discrete electronic industry, HB-LED, solar PV, compound semiconductor, strained silicon and silicon-on-insulator (SOI) devices, including composition, crystal structure, layer thickness, dopant concentration, contamination and electron mobility. Our Imperia is a photoluminescence (PL) full wafer imaging and mapping system designed for high-volume compound semiconductor metrology applications including power control and photonics applications adding significant inspection and substrate metrology capability to the established PL fleet. The RPMBlue is our latest PL mapping system designed specifically for the HB-LED market, and is complemented by the RPMBlue-FS, enabling a breadth of research and development configurability. We sell Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) automated and manual systems in the QS2200/3300 and QS1200 respectively. The FTIR systems are spectrometers designed for non-destructive wafer analysis for various applications. The NanoSpec line, including the NanoSpec II, supports thin film measurement across all applications in both low volume production and research applications. We are continually working to strengthen our competitive position by developing new technologies and products in our market segment. We have expanded our product offerings to address growing applications within the semiconductor manufacturing and adjacent industries. In continuance of our goals, we have: Introduced new products, applications, and upgrades in every core product line and primary market served; Diversified our product line and served markets through acquisitions, such as: the 2006 acquisition of Accent Optical Technologies, Inc., a supplier of overlay and thin film metrology and process control systems; the 2008 acquisition of Tevet Process Control Technologies (Tevet), an integrated metrology supplier; the 2009 acquisition of the UniFire 22 Table of Contents product line from Zygo Corporation; and the 2011 acquisition of Nanda Technologies GmbH, a supplier of high sensitivity, high throughput defect inspection systems; Continued development of new measurement and inspection technologies for advanced fabrication processes; and Researched and developed innovative applications of existing technology to new market opportunities within the solar PV, HB-LED, discrete device, and data storage industries. Important Themes and Significant Trends The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by cyclical growth. Changing trends in the semiconductor industry continue to drive the need for metrology as a major component of device manufacturing. These trends include: Proliferation of Optical Critical Dimension Metrology across Fabrication Processes. Our customers use photolithographic processes to create patterns on wafers. Critical dimensions must be carefully controlled during this process. In advanced node device definition, additional monitoring of thickness and profile dimensions on these patterned structures at CMP, Etch, and Thin Film processing is driving broader OCD adoption. Our proprietary OCD systems can provide the critical process control of these circuit dimensions that is necessary for successful manufacturing of these state-of-the-art devices. Nanometrics OCD technology is broadly adopted across NAND, DRAM, and logic semiconductor manufacturing processes. Development of 3D Transistor Architectures. Our end customers continue to improve device density and performance by scaling front-end-of-line transistor architectures. Many of these designs, including FinFET transistors and 3D-NAND, have buried features and high aspect ratio stacked features that enable improved performance and density. The advanced designs require additional process control to manage the complex shapes and materials properties, driving additional applications for both OCD and our UniFire systems. Adoption of Advanced Packaging Processes. Our customers use photolithography, etching, metallization and wafer thinning to enable next generation advanced packaging solutions for semiconductor devices. These new packaging techniques lead to increased functionality in smaller, less expensive form factors. Advanced packages can be broken down into high density flip chip or bump packages that increase pin density allowing for more complex I/O on advanced CPU parts. Similar or different devices can be stacked at the wafer level using a Through Silicon Via (TSV) process. The TSV process enables high density small form factor parts, being primarily driven by mobile consumer products (e.g. cellular telephones with integrated CMOS camera sensors). Increasingly advanced packaging technologies are being adopted by our end customers. Adoption of New Types of Thin Film Materials. The need for ever increasing device circuit speed coupled with lower power consumption has pushed semiconductor device manufacturers to begin the replacement of traditional aluminum etch back interconnect flows, as well as conventional gate dielectric materials, with new materials and processes that are driving broader adoption of thin film and OCD metrology systems. To achieve greater semiconductor device speed, manufacturers have adopted copper in Logic/IDM and it is now proliferating in next generation DRAM and Flash nodes. Additionally, to achieve improved transistor performance in logic devices and higher cell densities in memory devices, new materials including high dielectric constant (or high-k) gate materials are increasingly being substituted for traditional silicon-oxide gate dielectric materials. High-k materials comprise complex thin films including layers of hafnium oxide and a bi-layer of thin film metals. Our advanced metrology and inspection solutions are required for control of process steps, which are critical to enable the device performance improvements that these new materials allow. Need for Improved Process Control to Drive Process Efficiencies. Competitive forces influencing semiconductor device manufacturers, such as price-cutting and shorter product life cycles, place pressure on manufacturers to rapidly achieve production efficiency. Device manufacturers are using our integrated and automated systems throughout the fabrication process to ensure that manufacturing processes scale rapidly, are accurate and can be repeated on a consistent basis. Increased Customer Concentration. Our market is characterized by continued consolidation in the customer base. Our largest customer accounted for 30% and 52% of our total net revenues in the three months ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements conforms to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies that have an important impact on our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures at the date of our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to bad debts, inventory valuations, warranty obligations, impairment and income taxes. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical 23 Table of Contents experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 28, 2015. Please refer to Please refer to Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2014 for a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and effects or anticipated effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Results of Operations Net Revenues Our net revenues comprised the following product lines (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Change Automated systems $ 30,506 $ 33,883 $ (3,377 ) (10.0 )% Integrated systems 4,725 6,922 (2,197 ) (31.7 )% Materials characterization systems 3,108 2,475 633 25.6 % Total product revenue 38,339 43,280 (4,941 ) (11.4 )% Service 12,037 8,296 3,741 45.1 % Total net revenues $ 50,376 $ 51,576 $ (1,200 ) (2.3 )% For the three months ended March 28, 2015, total net revenues decreased by $1.2 million relative to the comparable 2014 period. The decrease was due to an 11.4% decline in product revenue. Approximately $4.9 million of the decrease in product revenues was attributable to sales of our Automated Systems (principally UniFire ) which declined by $3.4 million . Integrated Systems accounted for $2.2 million of the decrease (principally IMPULSE ) and was partially offset by Materials Characterization sales which increased by $0.6 million . Service revenue increased by $3.7 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 principally due to an increase in upgrade revenue as a result of higher demand for upgrades of installed tools during the first quarter of 2015. Upgrades tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on availability of new functionality from upgrades and customer production cycles, which determine when customers purchase available upgrades. With a significant portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity located in Asia, a substantial portion of our revenues continue to be generated in that region. Although sales to customers within individual countries of that region will vary from time to time, we expect that a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be generated in Asia. Gross margin Our gross margin breakdown was as follows: Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Products 46.2 % 48.4 % Service 47.1 % 38.4 % The calculation of product gross margin includes both cost of products and amortization of intangibles. The gross margin on product revenue decreased to 46.2% in the three months ended March 28, 2015 from 48.4% in the three months ended March 29, 2014, reflecting a decrease of 2.2 percentage points from the comparable 2014 period. The decrease was due primarily to lower factory overhead absorption and a change in product mix to lower margin products during the three months 24 Table of Contents ended March 28, 2015. The gross margin on our services business increased to 47.1% in the three months ended March 28, 2015 from 38.4% in the three months ended March 29, 2014, reflecting an increase of 8.7 percentage points, due principally to an increase in upgrade revenues, which typically have higher margins than core service revenue. Operating expenses. Our operating expenses comprised the following categories (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Change Research and development $ 8,159 $ 8,314 $ (155 ) (1.9 )% Selling 7,116 7,373 (257 ) (3.5 )% General and administrative 5,767 6,338 (571 ) (9.0 )% Amortization of intangible assets 38 108 (70 ) (64.8 )% Restructuring charge 58 58 NM* Total operating expenses $ 21,138 $ 22,133 $ (995 ) (4.5 )% * NM = not meaningful Research and development. Research and development costs decreased by $0.2 million or 1.9% in the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 29, 2014 related primarily to the decrease in headcount resulting from the shutdown of Nanda and UK operations partially offset by increased R&D headcount in the U.S, and reduced outside service costs. Together these expenses were partially offset by increased material expenses associated with R&D investments associated with our next generation Automated and Integrated systems. Investments in research and development personnel and associated projects are part of our strategy to ensure our products remain competitive and meet customers needs. Selling. Selling expenses decreased by $0.3 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 29, 2014 due to an increased utilization of sales application personnel for installation and warranty, which is included in cost of net revenues, partially offset by increased labor and benefits expenses due to headcount additions year over year. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.6 million or 9.0% in the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 29, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in consulting expenditures from the comparable 2014 period when our new ERP system had just been implemented. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets included in operating expenses in the three months ended March 28, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 29, 2014 decreased as a result of the reduction in amortization due to intangible assets that became fully amortized in the prior year. Restructuring charge. We recorded a restructuring charge of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 related to our efforts to improve operating efficiencies. We completed the restructuring plan in March 2015. Other related costs are expected to be recognized as incurred. 25 Table of Contents Other income (expense), net. Our other income (expense), net, consisted of the following items (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Change Interest income $ 10 $ 14 $ (4 ) (28.6 )% Interest expense (82 ) (100 ) 18 (18.0 )% Other income (expense) 704 252 452 179.4 % Total other income (expense), net $ 632 $ 166 $ 466 280.7 % Interest income declined minimally in the three months ended March 28, 2015 relative to the comparable 2014 period as the average balances of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities remained relatively flat. Other income increased by $0.5 million principally due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, primarily the Euro, which were favorable relative to the U.S. dollar. Provision for income taxes. We recorded a tax provision of $0.3 million and $0.6 million in three months ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014, respectively. The decrease in the tax provision for 2015 from 2014 was primarily related to no tax being provided on our U.S. income as we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets for the three months ended March 28, 2015. Our provision for income taxes for 2015 of $0.3 million reflects an effective tax rate of 11.0% . This rate differs from the Federal statutory rate of 35.0% primarily due to all our foreign income being subject to tax at lower rates and valuation allowances against any expense (benefit) that would be recorded at the U.S. statutory rates. As of March 28, 2015, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets as a result of uncertainties regarding the realization of the asset due to cumulative losses and uncertainty of future taxable income. We will continue to assess the realizability of the deferred tax assets in each of the applicable jurisdictions and maintain the valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support a reversal. In the event we determine that the deferred tax assets are realizable, an adjustment to the valuation allowance will be reflected in the tax provision for the period such determination is made. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states including California, and foreign jurisdictions including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and China. Due to tax attribute carry-forwards, we are subject to examination for tax years 2003 forward for U.S. tax purposes. We are also subject to examination in various states for tax years 2002 forward. We are subject to examination for tax years 2007 forward for various foreign jurisdictions. We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our provision for income taxes. The total amount of penalties and interest were not material as of March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014. During the next twelve months, we anticipate increases in its unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.1 million . 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following tables present selected financial information and statistics as of March 28, 2015 and December 27, 2014 and for the three months ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014 (in millions): As of March 28, 2015 December 27, 2014 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 77.0 $ 84.0 Working capital $ 125.5 $ 119.6 Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 March 29, 2014 Cash used in operating activities $ (5.9 ) $ (4.7 ) Cash used in investing activities $ (0.4 ) $ (3.6 ) Cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (0.4 ) $ 2.4 We believe our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next twelve months. During the three months ended March 28, 2015, cash used in operating activities of $5.9 million was a result of $2.6 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $4.9 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $13.3 million. Cash used in investing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted primarily of cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.5 million, partially offset by cash provided by maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $0.1 million. Cash used in financing activities of $0.4 million during the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $1.7 million, royalty and other payments to Zygo of $0.2 million, and cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards of $0.8 million, partially offset by $2.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 29, 2014, cash used in operating activities of $4.7 million was a result of $1.6 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $5.2 million and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $11.5 million. Cash used in investing activities of $3.6 million during the three months ended March 29, 2014 consisted primarily of cash used for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, of $1.4 million, and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $2.2 million. Cash provided by financing activities of $2.4 million during the three months ended March 29, 2014 consisted primarily of $3.1 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock from the employee stock purchase program and the exercise of stock options, partially offset by cash paid for taxes on net issuance of stock awards of $0.7 million, and other payments to Zygo of $0.1 million. Debt and Repurchases of Common Stock Line of Credit - On May 30, 2014, we amended our revolving line of credit facility with Comerica Bank principally (i) to extend the maturity date of such facility by two years to May 30, 2016, and (ii) to increase the minimum amount available to borrow to $12.0 million. The instrument governing the line of credit facility includes certain financial covenants regarding tangible net worth. The revolving line of credit agreement includes a provision for the issuance of commercial or standby letters of credit by the bank on our behalf. The value of all letters of credit outstanding reduces the total line of credit available. The revolving line of credit is collateralized by a blanket lien on all of our domestic assets excluding intellectual property and real estate. The minimum borrowing interest rate is 3.00% per annum. Borrowing is limited to the lesser of (a) $12.0 million plus the borrowing base, or (b) $20.0 million. The total borrowing available as of March 28, 2015 was $16.0 million . As of March 28, 2015, we were not in breach of any restrictive covenants in connection with this line of credit. There were no borrowings against the line of credit during the three months ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014 and there were no outstanding 27 Table of Contents amounts drawn on this facility as of March 28, 2015. Although we have no current plans to request advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Repurchases of Common Stock - On May 29, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase up to $20.0 million of our common stock, referred to as the 2012 program. Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open market and privately negotiated transactions, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased is dependent on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. Shares repurchased and retired for the indicated periods of the applicable repurchase programs with the associated cost of repurchase and amount available for repurchase at the end of the respective periods are as follows (in thousands, except number of shares and weighted average price per share): Three Months Ended March 28, 2015 Number of shares of common stock repurchased 111,050 Weighted average price per share $ 15.49 Total cost of repurchase $ 1,721 Amount available for repurchase at end of period $ 4,397 During the three months ended March 28, 2015 we repurchased 111,050 shares at an average purchase price of $15.49 per share for a total of $1.7 million. After these purchases, $4.4 million remained available for the future repurchase of our common stock under the 2012 program. Business Partnership - On June 17, 2009, we announced a strategic business partnership with Zygo Corporation whereby we have purchased inventory and certain other assets from Zygo Corporation, and the two companies entered into a supply agreement. We will make payments to Zygo Corporation (with an estimated present value of $2.2 million as of March 28, 2015 and $2.4 million as of December 27, 2014) over a period of time as acquired inventory is sold and other aspects of the supply agreement are executed. We made royalty and sustaining engineering payments of $0.2 million and $0.1 million to Zygo in three months ended March 28, 2015 and March 29, 2014, respectively. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the acquisitions of products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our business. These activities may result in product and business investments, which may affect our cash position and working capital balances. Some of these activities might require significant cash outlays. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, cash flow generated from our operations, and, to a lesser extent, borrowings from a line of credit. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including those that relate to our specific operations and those that relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the sectors of the semiconductor industry which we operate in. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and borrowing availability, combined with cash currently projected to be generated from our operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs through at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2015, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations.