Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the disclosures under Critical Accounting Estimates. Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. OptimizeRx disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, our, us, OptimizeRx, or the Company refer to OptimizeRx Corporation and its subsidiaries. ii SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS An investment in our Company is subject to a number of risks. Set forth below is a high-level summary of some, but not all, of these risks. You should review and carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report, which includes a more complete discussion of the risks summarized below as well as a discussion of other risks related to our business and an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Financial Position We have a history of losses, and may not be able to achieve profitability, or, if achieved, sustain profitability. We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business and may not be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. Servicing debt and funding other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Restrictions in our Term Loan could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions, and the value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Business: Our Industry, Operations, and Competition Seasonal trends in the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry could affect our operating results. Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our solutions may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs. Any failure to offer high-quality customer support for our solutions may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and harm our financial results. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers. If we are unable to maintain our contracts with electronic prescription platforms and electronic health record systems, our business will suffer. Our agreements with eRx and EHR channel partners could be subject to audit. If we fail to attract new customers or retain and expand existing customers, our business and future prospects may be materially and adversely impacted. The markets in which we operate are competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Actual or perceived failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations that affect the healthcare industry, including data protection, privacy and security, fraud and abuse laws, regulations, standards and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operations may be impacted from changes to current regulations and future legislation. If our customers, partners, and third-party providers fail to comply with the extensive and changing landscape of legal and regulatory requirements affecting the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries, they could face increased costs and/or penalties, which could lead to us losing business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology We are dependent, in part, on our intellectual property. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights or if those rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business may be adversely affected. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. We may be unable to support our technology to further scale our operations successfully. Our business will suffer if our network systems fail or become unavailable. The use of AI technology in our operations and IT infrastructure could improve internal processes, but poses security risks and privacy risks; the use of AI technology also faces regulatory uncertainty and scrutiny given that AI technology is rapidly growing and evolving. iii Risks Related to Managing Our Growth If we are unable to manage growth, our operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our acquisition activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction. Risks Related to Inflation, Interest Rates, and Other Adverse Economic Conditions Interest rate increases may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. Inflation, the current interest rate environment, and other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Geopolitical events may affect our business and our customer base and have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. Impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets may need to be recognized or increased if we lose a major customer, experience a decline in our common stock price or experience changes to the regulatory environment affecting pharmaceutical advertising restricting the use of our technology. Market conditions could adversely change and our earnings could decline resulting in charges to impair intangible assets, such as goodwill. General Risks Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key employees. The impact and effects of public health crises, pandemics and epidemics could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If a market for our common stock is not maintained, shareholders may be unable to sell their shares. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. Certain provision of our charter, bylaws and Nevada law may discourage takeover attempts and business combinations that shareholders might consider in their best interests. Actions of activist stockholders could be disruptive and costly and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and/or share price. Risks Related to Being a Public Company We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to remediate the material weakness or any other material weaknesses that we identify in the future could result in material misstatements in our future financial statements. Conflicting views on environmental, social and governance matters may have a negative impact on our business, impose additional costs on us, and expose us to additional risks. iv PART 1 Item 1. Business General OptimizeRx is a leading healthcare technology company that is redefining how life sciences brands connect with patients and healthcare providers. OptimizeRx is a Nevada corporation and was founded in 2006 in Rochester, Michigan as a healthcare technology company delivering various types of messages, including coupons and co-pays directly to physicians and pharmacists though electronic health record (EHR) systems and ePrescribing (eRx) platforms. Over time, the demand for different types of communication and marketing solutions among life sciences organizations, healthcare professionals (HCPs), and patients led us to expand upon our initial solution to increase the variety of health-related information we deliver, as well as the platforms, technology, and audiences through, and to which we deliver. By combining artificial intelligence (AI)-driven tools with our original financial messaging solution, we progressively enhanced our original financial messaging solution. Our current AI-enabled Dynamic Audience Activation Platform (DAAP) not only identifies precise HCP audiences, but also estimates which HCPs will see brand eligible patients, and when such brand eligible patients will be seen. After acquiring Healthy Offers, Inc. (d/b/a Medicx or Medicx Health) in 2023, we expanded our capabilities to include direct-to-consumer (DTC) marketing using our patent-protected Micro-Neighborhood Targeting (MNT) solution. MNT uses de-identified claims data to target not individual patients, but geographies in which eligible patients live, to better target audiences for brand manufacturers - a privacy-centric approach to audience creation. With the integration of DTC marketing, our life sciences brand customers can now access across our omnichannel network to reach both HCP and patient audiences. Today, we offer diverse tech-enabled marketing solutions using sophisticated machine-learning algorithms to find the best audience in the correct channels at the right time. Customers are able to execute traditional marketing campaigns on our proprietary digital point-of-care network, as well as dynamic DTC marketing campaigns that optimize audiences in real time to increase the value of treatment information for HCPs and patients. Connecting over two million U.S. healthcare providers and millions of their patients through an intelligent technology platform embedded within a proprietary omnichannel network, OptimizeRx helps life sciences organizations engage and support their customers. Business Strategy OptimizeRx is at a pivotal moment in its almost 20-year history. Over the past few months, we have completed an extensive review of our business processes, operations, growth plans, capital allocation, strategies and opportunities - with the ultimate goal of assessing how we can best create value for our shareholders. On March 10, 2025, after a rigorous search and selection process for a new Chief Executive Officer that was conducted by our independent directors with the assistance of a leading executive search firm, we named Stephen L. Silvestro as our Chief Executive Officer. As Mr. Silvestro leads the next phase of the Companys growth and transformation, many of our business priorities will be the same, such as continuing to focus on customer centricity and delight, operational excellence, disciplined execution, developing stronger relationships with our valued business partners, and expanding our unique value proposition with our top-tier pharma customers. However, going forward, a core aspect of our new value creation strategy will be to drive towards being recognized as a Rule of 40 company within the next several years such that our combined annual revenue growth rate and EBITDA margin are 40% or higher. Like other companies aspiring to be a Rule of 40 company, we understand the need to effectively balance growth with profitability. As we drive towards this ambitious financial goal, we plan to develop a re-occurring revenue component to our business as we look to convert our DAAP customers to a subscription-based model for the data component of our offerings. We believe this will improve our EBITDA margins over time while substantially enhancing the overall predictability of our revenue streams. We also believe this will enhance our ability to scale our business and more thoughtfully plan for profitable growth. While we believe we are executing the right strategy, our Board of Directors and management team understand the need to regularly review our strategy, assess it against a variety of opportunities that may create greater value, and ensure that the strategy we are executing is fully aligned with the best interests of our shareholders. 1 Industry Background Life sciences organizations face a challenging commercial landscape. The life sciences industry is characterized by rapidly advancing science and technologies, intense competition, and a strong emphasis on differentiated products. As a result, life sciences organizations have increasingly turned to technology solutions to support their commercial strategies. According to industry sources, total pharmaceutical industry commercial spend in the United States is $30 billion of which approximately $10 billion is attributable to commercial digital spend. We believe significant opportunity exists to address the unmet needs of life sciences organizations as they relate to digital solutions, including omnichannel access to HCPs, for our customers biggest commercial challenges. These complex challenges include brand visibility to HCPs which is impacted by a competitive drug environment with sales representatives losing time in front of prescribers, augmented by the amount of time the HCPs have to spend in front of computers and in the EHR. Further, EHRs do not often communicate with one another, creating interoperability issues resulting in HCPs not having all relevant patient information. In addition, expensive specialty medications are becoming more common and involve more complex diagnosis criteria - factors that contribute to substantial script abandonment by patients. Our solutions are designed to address these and other commercial challenges faced by our customers. Principal Solutions We offer clear, actionable solutions to the challenges faced by our customers, and our combined HCP and DTC marketing strategies are designed to ensure our customers brands are positioned at the right moment and with the right message, always prioritizing the end result: successful brand engagement to reach both HCPs and patients, ultimately resulting in improved patient care. Our principal solutions can be summarized as follows: Audience Development: DAAP and MNT Dynamic Audience Activation Platform (DAAP) generates dynamic audiences with predictive analytics via machine learning methods. This identifies which potentially qualified patients and which HCPs to actively engage based on the patients care journey and disease progression. These dynamic audiences provide our manufacturing customers with relevant and timely targets, generating a higher likelihood of impact. Micro-Neighborhood Targeting (MNT) creates consumer audiences using a privacy-first process. MNT looks for all patients expressing brand eligibility signals (covering more than 90% of the U.S. population), then scores over 35 million 9-digit zip codes based on the concentration of those signals to create a prioritized, yet de-identified audience. Geographies are automatically refreshed and prioritized regularly for maximum marketing relevance and precision. Our clients may then activate these audiences through programmatic Demand-Side Platforms (DSPs). Audience Profiling: Profiler Our audience profiling solution, Profiler, provides insights into our customers target consumers, identifying the most cost effective and engaging channels, partners, and strategies for our customers. Audience profiling enables clients to maximize marketing dollars, focusing on channels their targets are most likely to be consuming, and more specifically focusing on the media partners within those channels. This is critical to upfront planning as well as periodic analysis to ensure efficient use of marketing budgets. 2 Audience Activation and Media Execution Our primary media offering is banner messaging delivered to HCPs. Banner messages include brand messaging, therapeutic support messaging, affordability messaging, HUB awareness, limited distribution drug information, and patient support program messaging. We can deliver these in a number of ways via our HCP omnichannel network (EHR systems and eRx platforms), programmatic social media, and programmatic display. With the acquisition of Medicx, our omnichannel solutions expanded further to offering media execution solutions to consumer audiences. To reach consumer audiences - brand eligible patients - we deliver messages via our consumer omnichannel network including through programmatic display, programmatic connected television (CTV)/over-the-top (OTT), programmatic social media, addressable television (ATV), digital out-of-home (OOH), programmatic audio (podcasts, apps, radio), and email/direct mail. Pharmacy Alerts Pharmacy Alerts improves the existing workflow for prescribing HCPs by informing them in real time about which pharmacies are able to fill a patients prescription. Currently, HCPs typically see a list of pharmacies near their patients, sorted by proximity, without regard to whether each pharmacy carries the medication or is permitted to fill it (in case of a limited distribution drug). Pharmacy Alerts flags pharmacies that have the medication in stock and are able to fill the prescriptions, resulting in less frustration and added work for prescribing physicians, pharmacies and patients and less waiting time to get essential medications to the patients. Financial Messaging Financial Messaging provides prescribers visibility to branded copay offers for patients directly within their EHR systems and eRx platforms. It allows prescribers to print or digitally send copay offer details to the dispensing pharmacy. Our solution addresses the fact that many healthcare systems and prescribers are looking for an easier, more effective way to increase affordable access to their prescribed branded medications. Sales and Marketing The go-to-market strategy for the business aligns sales and marketing efforts while keeping customer engagement at the core. Engaging customers early, providing value throughout their journey, and nurturing long-term relationships drive sustainable growth and retention. Our sales and marketing teams include over 25 individuals focused on awareness, adoption and expansion of data and technology solutions designed to address the digital engagement needs of life sciences brands and their agency partners. DAAP, our patent pending patient-centric omnichannel engagement platform combines artificial intelligence (AI) and human intelligence (HI), to determine the optimal time to engage patients and physicians. We synchronize HCP and DTC marketing across the programmatic and point-of-care channels to increase brand conversions, streamline therapy starts, and build stronger brand relationships. Our sales and marketing teams work closely together to cultivate customer relationships. We use a number of methods to market and promote our solutions, including digital advertising, industry events, trade shows, conferences, media coverage, social media, and email. Technology Our proprietary technology platform enables us to curate privacy safe DTC audiences, dynamic HCP and DTC audiences, and effectively manage digital media campaigns for our advertiser clients (agencies, and manufacturer/brands) across our channel partner network. Our platform consists of a unified data intelligence technology stack, multiple cloud-based data warehouses, and in-house applications and application programming interface layers. Collectively, this platform enables us with a collaborative environment for data engineering, data science, and machine learning, an efficient method to curate privacy safe DTC audiences, and a scalable means to manage both point-of-care media campaigns and the supply-side inventory request volume. For the management of point-of-care media campaigns, the platform integrates advanced features of a Supply-Side Platform (SSP), allowing us to provide seamless access to an expansive range of point-of-care inventory via our strategic partnerships. As an SSP, our platform enables us to manage and optimize our point-of-care networks ad inventory, maximizing their revenue. On the demand side, our platform empowers our account and program managers to efficiently manage our customers campaign(s). Our technology is built on a scalable and secure architecture that supports high-performance data processing, real-time decisioning, and integration with third-party data providers. To support our growth and provide maximum security, scalability, and flexibility, all our systems, including from acquisitions, are now hosted and integrated in the cloud. Our technology development and systems management core team is in the U.S. and in Croatia, with contractors in India and Ukraine to provide bench depth, rich skills experience, and business economies. The teams are organized into Centers of Excellence focused on Product Domains, Quality Assurance, Information Security, Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence, Platform Services, and Internal Systems Support. System enhancements in 2024 included system and framework upgrades, documentation of processes and procedures, security implementation for ongoing cybersecurity, Sarbanes Oxley, HIPAA, and customer security assessments, and in achieving both System and Organization Controls (SOC) 2 Type 1 and Type 2 certifications. 3 Competition The competitive landscape within life sciences digital marketing is constantly evolving. Our solutions face competition from numerous other companies. We compete broadly in the dynamic and ever-evolving pharmaceutical and life sciences digital marketing industry with healthcare data suppliers, health-focused demand-side platforms, and health-focused walled garden websites and web platforms, and advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple web sites or point-of-care platforms such as telehealth, EHR, eRx, physician practice management, health information exchanges (HIE), and site-based platforms within large health systems. Our competitors include large well-known companies with established names, solid market niches, and wide arrays of product offerings and marketing networks. As innovators in the industry, we have patented and patent-pending technologies that provide unique differentiation, including a patient-centric focus on brand conversion, and value generation for our customers. Our extensive point-of-care network provides our customers with unparalleled reach to relevant prescribers. We are uniquely able to use DAAP to produce targeted, privacy-safe audiences for both consumers and their treating HCPs, allowing brand engagement to occur within the likely care window to find brand-eligible patients at the right time for brand adoption. DAAP leverages the investment in data and AI technologies, combined with human intelligence, in applying brand-specific strategies to optimize program performance. Our patented MNT technology provides a unique opportunity for pharmaceutical brands to market to consumers while adhering to HIPAA and state level privacy requirements. For more information on risks relating to our competition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Intellectual Property Historically, we have created intellectual property or obtained intellectual property through commercial relationships and in connection with acquisitions. We own patents important to our business, and we expect to continue to file patent applications to protect our research and development investments in new products. As of December 31, 2024, we held five patents and two pending patent applications, including foreign counterpart patents and foreign applications. For the United States, patents may last 20 years from the date of the patents filing, subject to term adjustments made by the patent office. In addition, we own registered trademarks in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2024, OPTIMIZERx, OPTIMIZEMD, CareSpeak, DIETWATCH, Innovate4Outcomes, SPRx, SPx, RMDY, Specialty Express, TELAREP, Medicx, Micro-Neighborhood, and Geomedical Targeting are our registered trademarks. We also have licenses to intellectual property for the use and sale of certain of our solutions. In addition, we obtain other intellectual property rights and/or licenses used in connection with our business when practical and appropriate. Government Regulation The healthcare industry and, in particular, our customers and partners are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing fraud, abuse, privacy and security. Many of these laws and regulations are complicated and how they might apply to us, our customers, our partners, or the specific services and relationships we have with our customers and partners are not always well-defined. Many states have enacted laws regulating the processing of personal information which may reduce demand for placing digital ads in general, especially when those ads relate to medications, medical products, or health conditions. Although our solutions address these laws by using publicly available information and by processing de-identified and aggregated information, and we use this data to target geographies rather than individuals, our customers and partners in the advertising industry remain subject to these regulatory pressures and may not process personal information in this same way. Our failure, or perceived failure, to accurately apply, or comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to significant fines and liability, result in reputational harm, and adversely affect our business. Any new or amended laws or regulations that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements may negatively impact our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information on the impact of Government Regulations on OptimizeRx. Human Capital As of December 31, 2024, we had 106 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee in the U.S, as well as 22 full-time employees in Croatia. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment with us. The majority of our employees work remotely and are geographically distributed across the United States and Croatia. We supplement our workforce with contractors in the United States and internationally on an as-needed basis. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced any work stoppages. We are dedicated to providing a supportive and respectful environment for our employees where everyone feels valued, and we celebrate both the differences and similarities among our people. We also believe that diversity in all areas, including cultural background, experience and thought, is essential to bettering a professional environment and in making our Company stronger. Our Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Committee (DEI&B) is actively engaged in improving our culture, hiring practices and training. In 2023, we upheld the Parity Pledge a commitment made in 2021 to interview and consider at least one qualified woman and one underrepresented minority for every open role, VP or higher. In addition, the DEI&B Committee sponsored quarterly events, including Cultural Caf, Food Waste Awareness, Movement Challenge, and Affinity Groups. 4 We prioritize recruiting, retaining, and incentivizing a highly qualified, diverse workforce as the success of our Company is dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our employees. A skilled workforce not only improves a companys performance, but also contributes to overall employee satisfaction and enhances human capital. We have increased our focus on training and development for our current employees and have implemented a Learning Management System where current and future training modules will be presented and tracked for reporting purposes. We offer other learning and development opportunities and resources to support our employees in achieving and enhancing their development objectives. We equip our managers with the skills and tools to provide ongoing coaching and feedback so employees can maximize their performance and potential, delivering success for the Company and the employee. We pay our employees competitively and offer a broad range of company-paid benefits, which we believe are competitive with others in our industry. Moreover, we believe our long-term incentives are structured in a manner to provide time-based vesting schedules that are retentive and we incentivize select employees through the granting of stock-based awards and cash-based performance bonus awards. Smaller Reporting Company We are a smaller reporting company as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). As a result, we may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations available to smaller reporting companies, including the exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2022, reduced disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements and the requirements to provide only two years of audited financial statements in our annual reports and registration statements. We will continue to be a smaller reporting company as long as (1) we have a public float (i.e., the market value of our American Depositary Shares held by non-affiliates) less than $250 million calculated as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (2) our annual revenues are less than $100 million for our previous fiscal year and we have either no public float or a public float of less than $700 million as of the end of that fiscal years second fiscal quarter. Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status as a smaller reporting company may make it harder for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects. Corporate Information On January 31, 2006, Optimizer Systems, L.L.C. was formed in the State of Michigan and, on October 16, 2007, OptimizeRx Corporation was separately incorporated in Michigan. On October 22, 2007, Optimizer Systems, LLC merged into OptimizeRx Corporation, a Michigan corporation, and the name OptimizeRx Corporation remained unchanged following the merger. On April 14, 2008, an alternative reporting company with the OTC Market Group, Inc., known at the time as RFID Ltd., and formed in the State of Colorado, entered into a share exchange agreement with the stockholders of OptimizeRx Corporation, pursuant to which the stockholders of OptimizeRx Corporation exchanged all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of OptimizeRx Corporation for shares of common stock of RFID Ltd. As of April 30, 2008, RFIDs officers and directors resigned their positions and RFID changed its business to OptimizeRxs business. On April 15, 2008, RFID Ltds corporate name was changed to OptimizeRx Corporation, a Colorado corporation. On September 4, 2008, the Company then completed a migratory merger, thereby changing the Companys state of incorporation from Colorado to Nevada, resulting in OptimizeRx Corporation, a Nevada corporation becoming the parent corporation of OptimizeRx Corporation, a Michigan corporation. On April 11, 2023, OptimizeRx Corporation, a Michigan corporation was merged with and into OptimizeRx Corporation, a Nevada corporation. We conduct our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthy Offers, Inc. (d/b/a Medicx Health or Medicx Health), a Nevada corporation, and CareSpeak Communications, d.o.o., a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Croatia. Our principal executive offices are located at 260 Charles Street Suite 302, Waltham, MA 02453 and our telephone number is (248) 651-6568. Our website address is www.optimizerx.com. Information contained on or accessible through this website is not incorporated by reference in, or otherwise a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any references to this website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and in accordance therewith, we file reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You can read our SEC filings over the Internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our filings with the SEC are also available free of charge through the investor relations section of our website at www.optimizerx.com. Reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. From time to time, we also use multiple social media channels to communicate with the public about OptimizeRx. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage you to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website, if any. Information contained on or accessible through the websites and social media channels referred to above is not incorporated by reference in, or otherwise a part of, this Annual Report, and any references to these websites and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Financial Position We have a history of losses, and may not be able to achieve profitability, or, if achieved, sustain profitability. With the exception of 2021, we have historically incurred losses as a result of investing in future growth. While we have increased revenues, we have not yet consistently achieved profitability due to these investments and non-cash expenses. Our ability to achieve consistent profitability depends on our ability to generate sales through our technology platform and advertising model, while maintaining reasonable expense levels. If we do not achieve sustainable profitability, it may impact our ability to continue our operations. 5 We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business and may not be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, including to expand our operations and pursue our growth strategies, to respond to competitive pressures, or to meet capital needs in response to operating losses or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to continue to operate our business and further expand our operations. Servicing debt and funding other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations and capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow and secure financing in the future. Our ability to generate future cash flow depends, among other things, on future operating performance, general economic conditions, competition, and legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. Some of these factors are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Restrictions in our Term Loan could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions, and the value of our securities. Our Term Loan contains customary affirmative covenants, including, among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements; certain financial covenants; notices of default and certain other material events; payment of obligations; preservation of corporate existence, rights, privileges, permits, licenses, franchises and intellectual property; maintenance of property and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants, including, among others, limitations on the incurrence of liens and entering into capital leases, investments and indebtedness; mergers and certain other fundamental changes; dispositions of assets; restricted payments; changes in our line of business; transactions with affiliates and burdensome agreements. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business, increase the amount of interest expense we ultimately pay pursuant to the Term Loan, and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our Term Loan, may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with these provisions could result in a default or an event of default. Upon an event of default, unless waived, the lenders could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, foreclose against any assets securing the debt under our Term Loan and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our stock could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business: Our Industry, Operations, and Competition Seasonal trends in the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry could affect our operating results. In general, the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry experiences seasonal trends that affect the vast majority of participants in the pharmaceutical digital marketing industry. Many pharmaceutical companies allocate the largest portion of their brand marketing to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. As a result, the first quarter tends to reflect lower activity levels and lower revenue, with gradual increases in the following quarters. We generally expect these seasonality trends to continue and our ability to effectively manage our resources in anticipation of these trends may affect our operating results. Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our solutions may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs. Attracting and retaining users of our solutions requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those solutions and to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services for those solutions. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. The costs of development of these enhancements may negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our solutions and related applications, features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, applications, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. 6 Any failure to offer high-quality customer support for our solutions may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and harm our financial results. Once our solutions are implemented, our customers use our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our solutions. Increased demand for our support services may increase our costs without corresponding revenue, which could adversely affect our operating results. Further, the sale of our solutions is highly dependent on the ease of use of our solutions, on our business reputation, and on favorable recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality and responsive customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers, adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to prospective customers, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers. Because the pharmaceutical industry is dominated by large companies with multiple brands, our revenue is concentrated in a relatively small number of companies. We have over 100 pharmaceutical manufacturers as customers, and our revenues are concentrated in these customers. Loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our top five customers represented approximately 49% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024. In 2024 and 2023, respectively, we had two customers and one customer that represented over 10% of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of these customers or groups of customers for any reason, or a change of relationship with any of our key customers could cause a material decrease in our total revenues. Additionally, mergers or consolidations among our customers in the healthcare industry could reduce the number of our customers and could adversely affect our revenues and sales. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not also our customers, that do not use our solutions or that have more favorable contract terms with competitors and choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our contracts with electronic prescription platforms and electronic health record systems, our business will suffer. We are reliant upon our contracts with leading electronic prescribing (eRx) platforms and electronic health record (EHR) systems to generate a portion of the revenues received from our customers. Such arrangements subject us to a number of risks, including the following: Our eRx and EHR channel partners may experience financial, regulatory or operational difficulties, which may impair their ability to focus on and fulfill their contract obligations to us; Legal disputes or disagreements, including the ownership of intellectual property, may occur with one or more of our eRx and EHR channel partners and may lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration; Significant changes in an eRx and/or EHR channel partners business strategy may adversely affect such partners willingness or ability to satisfy obligations under any such arrangement; An eRx and EHR channel partner could terminate the partnership arrangement, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our solutions and achieve revenues; and The failure of an eRx or EHR channel partner to provide accurate and complete financial information to us or to maintain adequate and effective internal control over its financial reporting may negatively affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. See Part II, Item 9A.