Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the disclosures under Critical Accounting Estimates. Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. OptimizeRx disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, our, us, OptimizeRx, or the Company refer to OptimizeRx Corporation and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business General OptimizeRx is a digital health technology company enabling care-focused engagement between life sciences organizations, healthcare providers, and patients at critical junctures throughout the patient care journey. Connecting over 60% of U.S. healthcare providers and millions of their patients through an intelligent technology platform embedded within a proprietary point-of-care network, OptimizeRx helps patients start and stay on their medications. We are a Nevada corporation organized in September 2008. We conduct our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, OptimizeRx Corporation, a Michigan corporation, CareSpeak Communications, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, CareSpeak Communications, D.O.O., a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Croatia, and Cyberdiet, a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Israel. We employ a land and expand strategy focused on growing our existing client base and generating greater and more consistent revenues in part through the continued shift in our business model toward enterprise level engagements, while also broadening our platform with innovative proprietary solutions such as our TelaRep virtual communication solution and our AI-powered real-world evidence solution which uses sophisticated proprietary algorithms. 1 Industry Background Life sciences organizations face a challenging commercial landscape. In recent years, they have met increased competition, shrinking market sizes, and inconsistent access to patients and healthcare professionals - their most important customers. The majority of new drug approvals, 81%, are specialty medications, leading to more complex diagnosis criteria, increased utilization management by healthcare payors, and lengthy wait times for patients to begin treatment once care decisions are made. As a result, life sciences organizations have increasingly turned to technology solutions to support their commercial strategies. Spending on digital solutions to facilitate greater access to their end markets accounts for one-third of their collective $30bn commercial spend in the United States (U.S.). We believe significant opportunity exists to address the unmet needs of life sciences organizations as they relate to digital solutions, including omni-channel access to health care professionals, for complex commercial challenges. 2022 Company Highlights 1. Net revenue increased to a record $62. 5 million in 2022, a 2% increase over 2021. 2. Achieved positive cash flow from operations of $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 3. Gross margins increased from 58% to 62%. 4. Repurchased 1,214,398 shares during 2022 at an average price of $16.49 per share. 5. Increased use of Real-World Data Artificial Intelligence (RWD.AI) solutions. Ended the year with 6 RWD.AI deals. 6. Acquired the EvinceMed platform and related assets. 7. Published Companys first Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report. 8. Announced partnership with Equals 5, becoming the only source capable of delivering true omni-channel engagement with HCPs, spanning web, social, and point-of-care messaging delivery modalities. Principal Solutions Historically, we primarily facilitated financial messages to health care providers via their EHR and ePrescribe systems using the OptimizeRx proprietary network to solve the ever-increasing communication barriers between pharmaceutical representatives and healthcare providers. Over time, as the demand for communication of an increasing variety of different health information between life science companies, providers, and patients has risen, our platform has expanded to encompass additional solutions that enable healthcare providers to access information for patients at the point of care. These solutions include evidence-based physician engagement, point of care banner messaging, social network banner messaging, institutional account-based banner messaging, innovative patient engagement services, and various accelerators to the therapy initiation workflow. Our principal solutions can be summarized as follows: Evidence-Based Physician Engagement Our evidence-based physician engagement solution uses predictive analytics via machine learning methods applied to real-world data (RWD) to assist healthcare providers (HCPs) in identifying patients who may be qualified for specific therapies, raise awareness of patient access pathways, and identify early indicators of non-adherence among patient populations. This RWD-enabled solution translates into better support for providers as they look to make the best treatment decisions for their patients. This solution has a patient-first focus, helping manufacturers identify which HCPs to engage by first identifying if they currently care for qualified patients, based on where they are in their care journey and disease state. These Artificial Intelligence (AI) models provide our clients with the most relevant targets and fuel the deployment of programs across our other solutions. Point of Care Banner Messaging Our point of care banner messaging solution is utilized to deliver a variety of awareness (brand, therapeutic support, affordability, HUB, and patient support program) and messaging within the clinical workflow which can be tailored to meet the needs of each brand. Social Network Banner Messaging This past year we expanded to provide exclusive access to deliver banner messaging to HCPs within their social network apps. With extensive reach and granular reporting, this solution both expands the ability to reach more prescribers while adding to the mind share we can capture throughout a care delivery day. Given these messages are targeted to specific HCPs, many of the same awareness messages offered on the point of care banner solution are offered here as well. 2 Institutional Account-based Banner Messaging Our Institutional Account-based Banner Messaging solution provides our clients access to delivering banner messaging online and on the intranets of targeted health system accounts. This allows our clients to capture additional mind share while also reaching other prescribers and support staff at key health systems or integrated delivery networks (IDNs). Financial Messaging Our Financial Messaging solution has been enhanced by Patient Support Messaging at the point-of-care. This solution provides prescribers visibility to branded copay offers and other patient support programs directly within their EHR and/or e-Prescribe system(s). It allows them to print, digitally send directly to patients via SMS, and/or digitally send copay offer details electronically to the dispensing pharmacy. Our solution addresses the fact that many healthcare systems and prescribers are looking for an easier, more effective way to increase affordable access and adherence to their prescribed branded medications. Patient Engagement Our technology solution provides digital messaging services through our cloud-based Mobile Health Messenger (MHM) Platform. We provide interactive health messaging for improved medication adherence and care coordination. Our HIPAA-compliant, automated, mobile messaging platform allows pharmaceutical manufactures and related entities to directly engage with patients to improve regimen compliance. Therapy Initiation Workflow The therapy initiation workflow is a group of digital solutions focused on accelerating patient access to treatments where time-consuming medical documentation is required of HCPs prior to pharmacies dispensing prescribed drugs. These solutions support the fast-growing area of specialty medications. This technology enhancement allows life sciences companies to simplify therapy initiation by presenting HCPs with a fully electronic option synchronizing enrollment, benefits verification, prior authorization, and patient support onboarding. Sales and Marketing We employ a sales team of over 19 pe ople, marketing our solutions to new and existing clients. Our sales team drives awareness of the increased value of our technology stack as an enterprise platform, enhanced this year by the addition of the social channel, and momentum of our institutional/account-based banner message solutions offering. Accordingly, our sales efforts are not directed merely at selling individual solutions, but more broadly towards selling enterprise platform engagements with access to our full set of solutions across our network. Our sales and marketing organizations work closely together to cultivate customer relationships. We use a number of methods to market and promote our solutions, including digital advertising, industry events, trade shows, conferences, media coverage, social media and email. We released a physician survey of 100 physicians across five specialties, detailing the specialty landscape as it pertains to prescribing pain points specialists experience. Additionally, we hosted our third annual Innovate4Outcomes event, partnering with Melinta Therapeutics, bringing individuals together across healthcare verticals, including HCPs, commercial manufacturer representatives, and health tech. The event focused on applying design thinking principles to contributing factors to Anti-Microbial Resistance, and was independently covered in end-of-year trade publications for the first time. Technology To support our growth and provide maximum security, scalability, and flexibility, all of our systems, including from acquisitions, are now hosted and integrated in the cloud. Our technology development and systems management core team is in the U.S. and in Croatia, with contractors in India and Ukraine to provide bench depth, rich skills experience, and business economies. The teams are organized into Centers of Excellence focused on Product Domains, Quality Assurance, Information Security, Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence, Platform Services, and Internal Systems Support. Systems enhancements in 2022 included upgrades and documentation of processes and procedures and security implementation for ongoing Sarbanes Oxley, HIPAA, and customer assessments, and in achieving Enterprise HITRUST Certification, as well as for other needs. 3 Competition Our platforms face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and websites that provide savings on medications and healthcare products. Our messaging offerings compete for pharmaceutical budgets with a variety of other forms of advertising and promotion. Our platforms compete broadly in the highly competitive pharmaceutical and life sciences digital marketing industry that is dominated by large well-known companies with established names, solid market niches, wide arrays of product offerings and marketing networks. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These companies may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. As a result, many of these companies may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards and changes in customer requirements. These companies may be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, and sales and marketing. The primary direct competitor in our financial messaging solution is ConnectiveRx. We generally compete on the basis of several factors, including size of our network, quality of our service, our ability to target specific customer needs, and to a lesser extent, price. For more information on risks relating to our competition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Intellectual Property We own patents important to our business, and we expect to continue to file patent applications to protect our research and development investments in new products. As of December 31, 2022 we held 3 patents and several pending patent applications, including foreign counterpart patents and foreign applications. For the United States, patents may last 20 years from the date of the patents filing, depending upon term adjustments made by the patent office. In addition, we hold trademarks in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2022, OPTIMIZERx, OPTIMIZEMD, CareSpeak, DIETWATCH, Innovate4Outcomes, SPRx, SPx and TELAREP are our registered trademarks. We also have several pending trademark applications. We also have licenses to intellectual property for the use and sale of certain of our solutions. In addition, we obtain other intellectual property rights and/or licenses used in connection with our business when practical and appropriate. Historically, we have created intellectual property or obtained intellectual property through commercial relationships and in connection with acquisitions. Government Regulation The healthcare industry and, in particular, our customers and partners are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing fraud, abuse, privacy and security. Many of these laws and regulations are complicated and how they might apply to us, our customers, our partners, or the specific services and relationships we have with our customers and partners are not always well-defined. Our failure, or perceived failure, to accurately apply, or comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to significant fines and liability, result in reputational harm, and adversely affect our business. Any new or amended laws or regulations that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements may negatively impact our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information on the impact of Government Regulations on OptimizeRx. Employees As of December 31, 2022, we had 94 full-time employees in the U.S, as well as 15 full-time employees in Croatia, and 1 part-time employee. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment with us. The majority of our employees work remotely and are geographically distributed across the United States and Croatia. We supplement our workforce with contractors in the United States and internationally on an as-needed basis. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced any work stoppages.We are dedicated to maintaining an environment where everyone feels valued, and we celebrate both the differences and similarities among our people. We also believe that diversity in all areas, including cultural background, experience and thought, is essential in making our Company stronger. Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Committee (DE&I) is actively engaged in improving our culture, hiring practices and education. In 2022, we endeavored to uphold the Parity Pledge a commitment made in 2021 to interview and consider at least one qualified woman and underrepresented minority for every open role, VP or higher. In addition, the DE&I Committee sponsored quarterly events in 2022, including Celebrate Womens History, Celebrate Diversity Month, and Hot Ones Trivia Show. 4 We prioritize recruiting, retaining, and incentivizing a highly qualified, diverse workforce. We pay our employees competitively and offer a broad range of company-paid benefits, which we believe are competitive with others in our industry. Moreover, we believe our long-term incentives are structured in a manner to provide time-based vesting schedules that are retentive and we incentivize selected employees through the granting of stock-based awards for and cash-based performance bonus awards. We have increased our focus on training and development for our current employees. We offer learning and development opportunities and other resources to support our employees in achieving and enhancing their development objectives. We equip our managers with the skills and tools to provide ongoing coaching and feedback so employees can maximize their performance and potential, delivering success for the company and the employee. Available Information Our Internet address is www.optimizerx.com. The information on the website is not and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The website is, and is only intended to be, for reference purposes only. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). In addition, we will provide, at no cost, paper or electronic copies of our reports and other filings made with the SEC. Requests should be directed to: Attention: Secretary, OptimizeRx Corporation, 400 Water Street, Suite 200, Rochester, MI 48307. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Because we have historically experienced losses, if we are unable to achieve profitability, our financial condition and company could suffer. With the exception of 2021, we have historically incurred losses as a result of investing in future growth. We incurred losses in 2022 as a result of our increased spending to build the organization to support expected future growth both through additional new hires, as well as through acquisitions. While we have increased revenues, we have not yet consistently achieved profitability due to these investments and non-cash expenses. Our ability to achieve consistent profitability depends on our ability to generate sales through our technology platform and advertising model, while maintaining reasonable expense levels. If we do not achieve sustainable profitability, it may impact our ability to continue our operations. Seasonal trends in the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry could affect our operating results. In general, the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry experiences seasonal trends that affect the vast majority of participants in the pharmaceutical digital marketing industry. Many pharmaceutical companies allocate the largest portion of their brand marketing to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. As a result, the first quarter tends to reflect lower activity levels and lower revenue, with gradual increases in the following quarters. We generally expect these seasonality trends to continue and our ability to effectively manage our resources in anticipation of these trends may affect our operating results. 5 Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our portals may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs. Attracting and retaining users of our portals requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those portals and to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services for those portals. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. The costs of development of these enhancements may negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our portals and related applications, features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, applications, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. Any failure to offer high-quality customer support for our portals may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and harm our financial results. Once our solutions are implemented, our customers use our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our solutions. In addition, we also believe that our success in selling our solutions is highly dependent on our business reputation and on favorable recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to maintain existing customers or sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could also increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers. Because the pharmaceutical industry is dominated by large companies with multiple brands, our revenue is concentrated in a relatively small number of companies. We have approximately 100 pharmaceutical manufacturers as customers, and our revenues are concentrated in these customers. Loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our top five customers represented 39% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. In each of 2022 and 2021, we had one customer that each represented slightly over 10% of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of these customers or groups of customers for any reason, or a change of relationship with any of our key customers could cause a material decrease in our total revenues. Additionally, mergers or consolidations among our customers in the healthcare industry could reduce the number of our customers and could adversely affect our revenues and sales. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not also our customers, that do not use our solutions or that have more favorable contract terms with competitors and choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 6 If we are unable to maintain our contracts with electronic prescription platforms, our business will suffer. We are reliant upon our contracts with leading electronic prescribing (ERx) platforms and electronic health record (EHR) systems to generate our revenues received from customers. Such arrangements subject us to a number of risks, including the following: Our ERx and EHR partners may experience financial, regulatory or operational difficulties, which may impair their ability to focus on and fulfill their contract obligations to us; Legal disputes or disagreements, including the ownership of intellectual property, may occur with one or more of our ERx and EHR partners and may lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration; Significant changes in an ERx and EHR partners business strategy may adversely affect a partners willingness or ability to satisfy obligations under any such arrangement; The failure of an ERx or EHR partner to provide accurate and complete financial information to us or to maintain adequate and effective internal control over its financial reporting may negatively affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC;and An ERx and EHR partner could terminate the partnership arrangement, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our solutions and achieve revenues. We will need to maintain these relationships as well as diversify them. The inability to do so could adversely impact our business. We generated 31.8% and 53.9% of our revenue through our largest partner in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our agreements with ERx and EHR channel partners are subject to audit. Our agreements with our ERx and EHR channel partners provide for revenue sharing payments to them based on the revenue we generate through their platforms and systems. These payments are subject to audit by our channel partners, at their cost, and if there is a dispute as to the calculation, we may be liable for additional payments. If an underpayment is determined to be in excess of a certain amount, for example 10%, some agreements would require us to pay for the cost of the audit, as well. If we fail to attract new customers or retain and expand existing customers, our business and future prospects may be materially and adversely impacted. We currently work with many leading pharmaceutical companies, medical device manufacturers, associations, and other companies. While we have experienced customer growth, this growth may not continue at the same pace in the future or at all. Achieving growth in our customer base may require us to engage in increasingly sophisticated and costly sales and marketing efforts that may not result in additional customers. We may also need to modify our pricing model to attract and retain such customers. If we fail to attract new customers or fail to maintain or expand existing relationships in a cost-effective manner, our business and future prospects may be materially and adversely impacted. Actual or perceived failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations that affect the healthcare industry, including data protection, privacy and security, fraud and abuse laws, regulations, standards and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The global data protection landscape is rapidly evolving, and we are or may become subject to numerous state, federal and foreign laws, requirements and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, retention, and security of personal information, including health-related information. This evolution may create uncertainty in our business, affect our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions or to collect, store, transfer, use and share personal information, necessitate the acceptance of more onerous obligations in our contracts, result in liability or impose additional costs on us. The cost of compliance with these laws, regulations and standards is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with federal, state or foreign laws or regulation, our internal policies and procedures or our contracts governing our processing of personal information could result in negative publicity, government investigations and enforcement actions, claims by third parties, and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and business. 7 We also may be bound by contractual obligations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security that are more stringent than applicable laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security are significant. Although we work to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, our contractual obligations and other legal obligations, these requirements are evolving and may be modified, interpreted and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with another or other legal obligations with which we must comply. Accordingly, our failure, or perceived inability, to comply with these laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations may limit the use and adoption of our solution, reduce overall demand for our solution, lead to regulatory investigations, breach of contract claims, litigation, and significant fines, penalties, or liabilities for actual or alleged noncompliance or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the rules promulgated thereunder require certain entities, referred to as Covered Entities, to comply with established standards, including standards regarding the privacy and security of protected health information, or PHI. HIPAA further requires that Covered Entities enter into agreements meeting certain regulatory requirements with their business associates, as such term is defined by HIPAA, which, among other things, obligate the business associates to safeguard the covered entitys PHI against improper use and disclosure. While we are not a Covered Entity, we have contracted as a business associate of our Covered Entity customers and, as such, may be regulated by HIPAA and have contractual obligations unders such agreements, including to enter into business associate agreements with our third-party vendors. We, and our Covered Entity customers might face significant contractual liability pursuant to such business associate agreements if the business associate breaches the agreement or causes the Covered Entity to fail to comply with HIPAA. It is possible that HIPAA compliance could become a substantial regulatory burden and expense to our operations as we expand our point of care technology solutions to help patients start and stay on therapies. Certain other laws and regulations such as federal and state anti-kickback and false claims laws may apply to us indirectly through our relationships with our customers and partners. Violations can result in considerable penalties and sanctions. If we are found to have violated, or to have facilitated the violation of such laws, we could be subject to significant penalties. The markets in which we operate are competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. Our platforms face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and websites that provide savings on medications and healthcare products, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. We compete for advertisers and sponsors with health-related web sites, general purpose consumer web sites that offer specialized health sub-channels, other high-traffic web sites that include both healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services, search engines that provide specialized health searches, and advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple sites. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. Since there are no substantial barriers to entry into the markets in which our public portals participate, we expect that competitors will continue to enter these markets. Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. Most of our revenue is derived from pharmaceutical manufacturers and could be affected by changes affecting the broader healthcare industry, including decreased spending in the industry overall. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things: Government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare industry participants interact with consumers and the general public; Government regulation prohibiting the use of coupons by patients covered by federally funded health insurance programs; Consolidation of healthcare industry participants; Reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and Adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare industry participants. 8 Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve now or may serve in the future. For example, use of our solutions and services could be affected by: A decrease in the number of new drugs or medical devices coming to market; and A decrease in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical or medical device companies. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the demands for our solutions and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in the healthcare industry. If we are unable to manage growth, our operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to manage growth effectively will depend on our ability to improve and expand operations, including our financial and management information systems, and to recruit, train and manage personnel. There can be no assurance that management will be able to manage growth effectively. To manage growth effectively, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operating and financial systems and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively will require us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and to attract and retain sufficient talented personnel. If we do not properly manage the growth of our business, we may experience significant strains on our management and operations and disruptions in our business. Various risks arise when companies grow too quickly. If our business grows too quickly, our ability to meet customer demand in a timely and efficient manner could be challenged. We may also experience development delays as we seek to meet increased demand for our solutions. Our failure to properly manage the growth that we or our industry might experience could negatively impact our ability to execute on our operating plan and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on our business, our cash flow and results of operations, and our reputation with our current or potential customers. Our growth may be impacted by acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our future growth is likely to depend to some degree on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate new businesses. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, or integrate acquisitions successfully. We may seek additional acquisition opportunities, both to further diversify our business and to penetrate or expand important product offerings or markets. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses, or expand into new markets. Once acquired, operations may not achieve anticipated levels of revenues or profitability. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there are no assurances that we will properly ascertain all such risks. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business. 9 Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key employees. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and key employees and the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse effect on us. The loss of any member of our senior management team or any of our other key employees could damage critical customer relationships, result in the loss of vital knowledge, experience and expertise, could lead to an increase in recruitment and training costs and make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and execute our business strategy. We may not be able to find qualified potential replacements for these individuals and the integration of potential replacements may be disruptive to our business. Furthermore, our ability to expand operations to accommodate our anticipated growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, sales and technical personnel. However, competition for these types of employees is intense due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Our ability to meet our business development objectives will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand our industry, technology and business. If we are unable to engage and retain the necessary personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the United States. In addition to the risks that we face in the United States, our international operations in Israel and Croatia, may involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; natural or man-made disasters, political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism and political unrest, outbreak of disease , boycotts, curtailment of trade, and other business restrictions; compliance with United States laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the United States, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; and different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, as well as results of our operations. 10 A global pandemic may disrupt our business or the business of our customers. In December 2019, a novel strain of corona virus, which causes the infectious disease known as COVID-19 was reported. The World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a Public Health Emergency and Global Pandemic. Although many economies around the world have started to rebound from the severe impact of COVID-19, the healthcare industry in which we operate remains impacted. The emergence and spread of new variants and resurgences, or other epidemics or pandemics, actions taken by governmental authorities and others in response to the pandemic, the acceptance, and the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers and other life sciences companies to develop effective and safe treatment, and global economic conditions could affect the desire and/or need for our solutions. We are prepared to take steps to modify our business practices and mitigate the impact of the emergence and spread of new variants and resurgences, or another pandemic or epidemic; however, there can be no assurance that such steps will be successful, or that our business operations, or the operations of our customers or partners will not be materially and adversely affected by the consequences of such pandemic or epidemic, which could materially impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Risks Related to Inflation and Other Adverse Economic Conditions Inflation and other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recently, inflation has increased throughout the U.S. economy. In an inflationary environment, we may experience increases in the prices of labor and other costs of doing business. Additionally, cost increases may outpace our expectations, causing us to use our cash and other liquid assets faster than forecasted. If we are unable to successfully manage the effects of inflation, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. The occurrence or perception of an economic slowdown or recession, or of a further increase in inflation, may have a negative impact on the global economy and may reduce customer demand for our products and services. In addition, macroeconomic effects such as increases in interest rates and other measures taken by central banks and other policy makers could have a negative effect on overall economic activity that could reduce our customers demand for our products and serves. Adverse changes in demand could impact our business, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation, which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology We are dependent, in part, on our intellectual property. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights or if those rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business may be adversely affected. Our business is dependent, in part, on our ability to innovate, and, as a result, we are reliant on our intellectual property. We generally protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures to the extent our budget permits. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications that we have filed or that our patents will be sufficient to protect our key technology from misappropriation or falling into the public domain, nor can assurances be made that any of our patents, patent applications, trademarks or our other intellectual property or proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In the event a competitor or other party successfully challenges our solutions, processes, patents or licenses or claims that we have infringed upon their intellectual property, we could incur substantial litigation costs defending against such claims, be required to pay royalties, license fees or other damages or be barred from using the intellectual property at issue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property and other contractual agreements for our business will be adequate, that our competitors will not independently develop or patent substantially equivalent or superior technologies or be able to design around patents that we may receive, or that our intellectual property will not be misappropriated. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may be at a disadvantage to others who do not incur the substantial time and expense we incur. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. Moreover, it may be difficult or practically impossible to detect theft or unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, insurance, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems, maintenance of backup and protective systems and user training and education), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, loss of customers, litigation with customers and other parties, loss of trade secrets and other proprietary business data and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. We may be unable to support our technology to further scale our operations successfully. Our plan is to grow through further integration of our technology in electronic platforms. Our growth will place significant demands on our management and technology development, as well as our financial, administrative and other resources. We cannot guarantee that any of the systems, procedures and controls we put in place will be adequate to support the commercialization of our operations. Our operating results will depend substantially on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our financial, administrative and other resources. If we are unable to respond to and manage changing business conditions, or the scale of our solutions, services and operations, then the quality of our services, our ability to retain key personnel and our business could be harmed. Our business will suffer if our network systems fail or become unavailable. A reduction in the performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure would harm our ability to distribute our solutions to our users, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems could also be subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct. We might not carry adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Any system error or failure that causes interruption in availability of our solutions or an increase in response time could result in a loss of potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer sustained or repeated interruptions, then our solutions and services could be less attractive to our users and our business would be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If a market for our common stock is not maintained, shareholders may be unable to sell their shares. Our common stock is traded under the symbol OPRX on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We do not currently have a consistent active trading market. There can be no assurance that a consistent active and liquid trading market will develop or, if developed, that it will be sustained. Historically, our securities have been thinly traded. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of our common stock without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. 12 The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price is subject to a number of factors, including: Technological innovations or new solutions and services by us or our competitors; Government regulation of our solutions and services; The establishment of partnerships with other healthcare companies; Intellectual property disputes; Additions or departures of key personnel; Sales of our common stock; Our ability to execute our business plan; Operating results below or exceeding expectations; Our operating and financial performance and prospects; Loss or addition of any strategic relationship; General financial, domestic, international, economic, industry and other market trends or conditions; and Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Our stock price may fluctuate widely as a result of any of the above. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund our future growth and do not expect to declare or pay any dividend on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock may depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it is purchased. Anti-takeover provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. The Company is a Nevada corporation. Anti-takeover provisions in Nevada law and our charter and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if the Company is sold. For example, our charter provides that the board of directors may issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, our bylaws provide that shareholders cannot act by written consent and that directors may be removed by shareholders only with the approval of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the voting power of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders. Risks Related to Being a Public Company We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to remediate the material weakness or any other material weaknesses that we identify in the future could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Annually, we perform activities that include reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could result in significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and lead to a decline in our stock price. 13 The Company has identified a material weakness in the Companys internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a companys annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For further discussion of the material weaknesses, see Item 9A,