Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the disclosures under Critical Accounting Estimates. Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. OptimizeRx disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, our, us, OptimizeRx, or the Company refer to OptimizeRx Corporation and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business General OptimizeRx is a digital health technology company enabling care-focused engagement between life sciences organizations, healthcare providers, and patients at critical junctures throughout the patient care journey. Connecting over two million U.S. healthcare providers and millions of their patients through an intelligent omni-channel technology platform embedded within a proprietary point-of-care network, as well as mass digital communications channels, OptimizeRx helps life sciences organizations engage and support their customers. We are a Nevada corporation organized in September 2008. We conduct our operations through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthy Offers, Inc. (d/b/a Medicx Health or Medicx Health), a Nevada corporation, CareSpeak Communications, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, CareSpeak Communications, d.o.o., a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Croatia, and Cyberdiet, a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in Israel. We employ a land and expand strategy focused on growing our existing client base and generating greater and more consistent revenues, in part through the continued shift in our business model toward enterprise level engagements, while also broadening our platform with innovative proprietary solutions such as our Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered Dynamic Audience and Activation Platform (DAAP), expanding on previous iterations of the RWD.AI technology. which uses sophisticated machine-learning algorithms to find the best audiences in the correct channels at the right time. 1 Industry Background Life sciences organizations face a challenging commercial landscape. In recent years, they have met increased competition, shrinking market sizes, and inconsistent access to patients and healthcare professionals - their most important customers. 81% of new drug approvals are specialty medications, leading to more complex diagnosis criteria, increased utilization management by healthcare payors, and lengthy wait times for patients to begin treatment after care decisions are made. As a result, life sciences organizations have increasingly turned to technology solutions to support their commercial strategies. Spending on digital solutions to facilitate greater access to their end markets accounts for one-third of their collective commercial spend in the United States of approximately $30 billion. We believe significant opportunity exists to address the unmet needs of life sciences organizations as they relate to digital solutions, including omnichannel access to health care professionals, for complex commercial challenges. 2023 Company Highlights 1. Net revenue increased to $71.5 million in 2023, a 15% increase over 2022. 2. Gross profit increased to $42.9 million in 2023 from $39.0 million in 2022 with corresponding gross margins of 60.0% and 62.4%, respectively. 3. Meaningfully increased our DAAP footprint. With 2023 having 24 DAAP deals compared to only six deals in 2022. 4. Acquired Medicx Health, a leading healthcare consumer-focused omnichannel marketing and analytics company that significantly expands our footprint with consumers and patients. 5. Refocused operations on core solutions to streamline efficiencies and better position the Company to capitalize on synergies with Medicx Health, focusing on Audience Development, Audience Activation and Media Execution, and Financial Messaging. Principal Solutions The Companys original solution was Financial Messaging - the delivery of treatment-specific financial support information for patients distributed directly to healthcare prescribers through a combination of our proprietary technology and a network of electronic health record (EHR) and electronic prescribing (ERx) platforms. Over time, the demand for different types of communication and marketing solutions among life sciences organizations, healthcare providers, and patients led us to expand upon our initial solution to increase the variety of health-related information we deliver, as well as the platforms, technology, and audiences through and to which we deliver. Today, we offer diverse tech-enabled marketing solutions through our AI-generated DAAP, which enables customers to execute traditional marketing campaigns on our proprietary digital point-of-care network, as well as dynamic marketing campaigns that optimize audiences in real time to increase the value of treatment information for healthcare professionals and patients in response to clinical care events. Our principal solutions, available individually or through our DAAP, can be summarized as follows: Audience Development AI-generated dynamic audience creation using predictive analytics via machine learning methods applied to real-world data (RWD) to assist healthcare providers (HCPs) in identifying patients who may be qualified for specific therapies, raise awareness of patient access pathways, and identify early indicators of non-adherence among patient populations. This solution has a patient-first focus, helping manufacturers identify which HCPs to engage by first identifying if they currently care for qualified patients, based on where they are in their care journey and disease state. These AI models provide our clients with the most relevant targets and fuel the deployment of programs across our other solutions. Creation of consumer audiences using our privacy-safe and HIPAA-compliant Micro-Neighborhood Targeting technology available for traditional media execution through major programmatic Demand-Side Platforms (DSPs) 2 Audience Activation and Media Execution HCP media execution delivering awareness (brand, therapeutic support, affordability, HUB, limited distribution, and patient support program) messaging via our HCP omnichannel network including digital point-of-care banners within clinical workflow applications, such as EHR systems and ERx platforms, programmatic social media, and programmatic display. Consumer audience media execution delivering consumer awareness via our consumer omnichannel network including programmatic display, programmatic connected television (CTV)/over-the-top (OTT), programmatic social media, addressable television (ATV), digital out-of-home (OOH), programmatic audio (podcasts, apps, radio), and email/direct mail. Financial Messaging Financial Messaging solution providing prescribers visibility to branded copay offers directly within their EHR systems and/or ERx platforms. It allows prescribers to print, digitally send directly to patients via SMS, and/or digitally send copay offer details electronically to the dispensing pharmacy. Our solution addresses the fact that many healthcare systems and prescribers are looking for an easier, more effective way to increase affordable access to their prescribed branded medications. Sales and Marketing We employ a sales team of over 20 people, marketing our solutions to new and existing clients. Our sales team drives awareness of the increased value of our technology stack as an AI tech-enabled marketing platform. Accordingly, our sales efforts are not directed merely at selling individual solutions, but more broadly towards selling enterprise platform engagements with access to our full set of solutions. Our sales and marketing teams work closely together to cultivate customer relationships. We use a number of methods to market and promote our solutions, including digital advertising, industry events, trade shows, conferences, media coverage, social media and email. In 2023, we enhanced our RWD.AI platform solution to become the premier platform to devise and execute Next-Best-Action marketing strategies within healthcare professional audiences and branded the platform as DAAP. Technology To support our growth and provide maximum security, scalability, and flexibility, all of our systems, including from acquisitions, are now hosted and integrated in the cloud. Our technology development and systems management core team is in the U.S. and in Croatia, with contractors in India and Ukraine to provide bench depth, rich skills experience, and business economies. The teams are organized into Centers of Excellence focused on Product Domains, Quality Assurance, Information Security, Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence, Platform Services, and Internal Systems Support. Systems enhancements in 2023 included upgrades and documentation of processes and procedures and security implementation for ongoing cybersecurity, Sarbanes Oxley, HIPAA, and customer security assessments, and in achieving enterprise HITRUST recertification. Competition Our solutions face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and websites that provide savings on medications and healthcare products. Our messaging offerings compete for pharmaceutical budgets with a variety of other forms of advertising and promotion. 3 Our solutions compete broadly in the highly competitive pharmaceutical and life sciences digital marketing industry that is dominated by large well-known companies with established names, solid market niches, and wide arrays of product offerings and marketing networks. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These companies may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. As a result, many of these companies may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards and changes in customer requirements. These companies may be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, and sales and marketing. We generally compete on the basis of several factors, including size of our network, quality of our service, our ability to target specific customer needs, and to a lesser extent, price. For more information on risks relating to our competition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Intellectual Property Historically, we have created intellectual property or obtained intellectual property through commercial relationships and in connection with acquisitions. We own patents important to our business, and we expect to continue to file patent applications to protect our research and development investments in new products. As of December 31, 2023, we held five patents and two pending patent applications, including foreign counterpart patents and foreign applications. For the United States, patents may last 20 years from the date of the patents filing, subject to term adjustments made by the patent office. In addition, we own registered trademarks in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2023, OPTIMIZERx, OPTIMIZEMD, CareSpeak, DIETWATCH, Innovate4Outcomes, SPRx, SPx, RMDY, Specialty Express, TELAREP, Medicx, Micro-Neighborhood, and Geomedical Targeting are our registered trademarks. We also have several pending trademark applications. We also have licenses to intellectual property for the use and sale of certain of our solutions. In addition, we obtain other intellectual property rights and/or licenses used in connection with our business when practical and appropriate. Government Regulation The healthcare industry and, in particular, our customers and partners are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing fraud, abuse, privacy and security. Many of these laws and regulations are complicated and how they might apply to us, our customers, our partners, or the specific services and relationships we have with our customers and partners are not always well-defined. Our failure, or perceived failure, to accurately apply, or comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to significant fines and liability, result in reputational harm, and adversely affect our business. Any new or amended laws or regulations that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements may negatively impact our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information on the impact of Government Regulations on OptimizeRx. Employees As of December 31, 2023, we had 116 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee in the U.S, as well as 19 full-time employees in Croatia. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment with us. The majority of our employees work remotely and are geographically distributed across the United States and Croatia. We supplement our workforce with contractors in the United States and internationally on an as-needed basis. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced any work stoppages. We are dedicated to providing a supportive and respectful environment to our employees where everyone feels valued, and we celebrate both the differences and similarities among our people. We also believe that diversity in all areas, including cultural background, experience and thought, is essential to bettering a professional environment and in making our Company stronger. Our Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Committee (DEI&B) is actively engaged in improving our culture, hiring practices and training. In 2023, we upheld the Parity Pledge a commitment made in 2021 to interview and consider at least one qualified woman and one underrepresented minority for every open role, VP or higher. In addition, the DEI&B Committee sponsored quarterly events in 2023, including Historic Women Inventors, Mental Health Awareness, Step Challenge, and Affinity Groups. 4 We prioritize recruiting, retaining, and incentivizing a highly qualified, diverse workforce as the success of our Company is dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our employees. A skilled workforce not only improves a companys performance, but also contributes to overall employee satisfaction and enhances human capital. We have increased our focus on training and development for our current employees and have implemented a Learning Management System where current and future training modules will be presented and tracked for reporting purposes. We offer other learning and development opportunities and resources to support our employees in achieving and enhancing their development objectives. We equip our managers with the skills and tools to provide ongoing coaching and feedback so employees can maximize their performance and potential, delivering success for the Company and the employee. We pay our employees competitively and offer a broad range of company-paid benefits, which we believe are competitive with others in our industry. Moreover, we believe our long-term incentives are structured in a manner to provide time-based vesting schedules that are retentive and we incentivize select employees through the granting of stock-based awards and cash-based performance bonus awards. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and in accordance therewith, we file reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You can read our SEC filings over the Internet at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Our filings with the SEC are also available free of charge through the investor relations section of our website at www.optimizerx.com. Reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. From time to time, we also use multiple social media channels to communicate with the public about OptimizeRx. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage you to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website, if any. Information contained on or accessible through the websites and social media channels referred to above is not incorporated by reference in, or otherwise a part of, this Annual Report, and any references to these websites and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Because we have historically experienced losses, if we are unable to achieve profitability, our financial condition and company could suffer. With the exception of 2021, we have historically incurred losses as a result of investing in future growth. We incurred losses in 2023 as a result of our increased spending to build the organization to support expected future growth both through additional new hires, as well as through acquisitions. While we have increased revenues, we have not yet consistently achieved profitability due to these investments and non-cash expenses. Our ability to achieve consistent profitability depends on our ability to generate sales through our technology platform and advertising model, while maintaining reasonable expense levels. If we do not achieve sustainable profitability, it may impact our ability to continue our operations. Seasonal trends in the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry could affect our operating results. In general, the pharmaceutical brand marketing industry experiences seasonal trends that affect the vast majority of participants in the pharmaceutical digital marketing industry. Many pharmaceutical companies allocate the largest portion of their brand marketing to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. As a result, the first quarter tends to reflect lower activity levels and lower revenue, with gradual increases in the following quarters. We generally expect these seasonality trends to continue and our ability to effectively manage our resources in anticipation of these trends may affect our operating results. 5 Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our solutions may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs. Attracting and retaining users of our solutions requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those solutions and to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services for those solutions. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. The costs of development of these enhancements may negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our solutions and related applications, features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, applications, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. Any failure to offer high-quality customer support for our solutions may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and harm our financial results. Once our solutions are implemented, our customers use our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our solutions. In addition, we also believe that our success in selling our solutions is highly dependent on our business reputation and on favorable recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to maintain existing customers or sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could also increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers. Because the pharmaceutical industry is dominated by large companies with multiple brands, our revenue is concentrated in a relatively small number of companies. We have approximately 100 pharmaceutical manufacturers as customers, and our revenues are concentrated in these customers. Loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our top five customers represented approximately 44% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. In each of 2023 and 2022, we had one customer that each represented over 10% of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of these customers or groups of customers for any reason, or a change of relationship with any of our key customers could cause a material decrease in our total revenues. Additionally, mergers or consolidations among our customers in the healthcare industry could reduce the number of our customers and could adversely affect our revenues and sales. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not also our customers, that do not use our solutions or that have more favorable contract terms with competitors and choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 6 If we are unable to maintain our contracts with electronic prescription platforms, our business will suffer. We are reliant upon our contracts with leading electronic prescribing (ERx) platforms and electronic health record (EHR) systems to generate a portion of the revenues received from our customers. Such arrangements subject us to a number of risks, including the following: Our ERx and EHR partners may experience financial, regulatory or operational difficulties, which may impair their ability to focus on and fulfill their contract obligations to us; Legal disputes or disagreements, including the ownership of intellectual property, may occur with one or more of our ERx and EHR partners and may lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration; Significant changes in an ERx and EHR partners business strategy may adversely affect a partners willingness or ability to satisfy obligations under any such arrangement; An ERx and EHR partner could terminate the partnership arrangement, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our solutions and achieve revenues; and The failure of an ERx or EHR partner to provide accurate and complete financial information to us or to maintain adequate and effective internal control over its financial reporting may negatively affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC. See Part II, Item 9A.