Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses, key operating segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environmentsapplication, platform and infrastructureand are available to customers either via cloud computing or on-premise deployment models. Our offerings include database and middleware software, application software, cloud infrastructure software, hardware (Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking and industry specific products), and related support and services. We offer to over 400,000 worldwide customers a choice of deployment models to best suit their needs including (1) the deployment of our products via our Oracle Cloud offerings, (2) the acquisition of Oracle products and services for an on-premise IT environment or (3) a mix of these two models. For customers opting for a cloud computing model, Oracle offers a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of cloud applications and platform services in all three primary layers of the cloud: Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Our Integrated Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; and cost effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment. Our Oracle Cloud offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. In addition to offering a broad spectrum of cloud products and services, we have for decades developed and sold our products and services to our customers worldwide for use in their global data centers and on-premise IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how all components within IT environmentsapplication, platform and infrastructureinteract and function with one another. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to take advantage of our research and development investments and deep IT expertise by purchasing and renewing Oracle support offerings, which may include product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our Oracle E-Business Suite, Siebel, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards application software products, among others, or by renewing their SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us. Oracle customers are increasingly electing to run their IT environments using our Integrated Cloud offerings. As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of their IT resources are deployed and managed through the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT resources are deployed and managed on-premise, and both sets of resources can be managed as one. We focus the engineering of our products and services to best connect these different deployment models to enable flexibility, ease, agility, compatibility, extensibility and seamlessness. A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. 26 Table of Contents In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. We have three businesses that deliver our application, platform and infrastructure technologies: cloud and on-premise software, hardware, and services. These businesses can be further divided into certain operating segments (Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our operating segments). Each of our businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. An overview of our three businesses and related operating segments follows. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software business, which represented 78% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of three operating segments: (1) cloud software and on-premise software, (2) cloud infrastructure as a service and (3) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our cloud and on-premise software business total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our software products and cloud software subscription offerings, our software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow and continue to make investments in research and development. Cloud Software and On-Premise Software: Our cloud software and on-premise software line of business markets, sells and delivers our application and platform technologies, including our SaaS and PaaS offerings, which provide customers a choice of software applications and platforms that are delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we host, manage and support, and the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others. Our application and platform technologies are substantially built on standards-based architectures that are designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructure. Our commitment to industry standards results in software that works in customer environments with Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components and that can be adapted to meet specific industry or business needs. We focus the engineering of our products and services to best connect cloud and on-premise deployment models to enable flexibility, ease, agility, compatibility, extensibility and seamlessness. Our software offerings are substantially designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations for cloud or on-premise IT environments, and to support a choice of operating systems including Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products, among others. These approaches are designed to support customer choice and reduce customer risk. Our customers include businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We market and sell our software products and services to these customers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best fit their needs. We enable customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT environment at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. Cloud software and on-premise software revenues represented 26% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. The growth in our SaaS and PaaS revenues and new software licenses revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the strategy for and competitive position of our software offerings, our acquisitions, our ability to deliver and renew our SaaS and PaaS contracts with our existing customers and foreign currency fluctuations. In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues, which has affected the growth of our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues and our new software licenses revenues. We expect this trend will continue for at least the near term. The substantial majority of our new software license transactions are characterized by long sales cycles and the timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues. Our SaaS and PaaS arrangements are generally one to three years in duration and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. Our cloud software and on-premise software segments margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to 27 Table of Contents the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short term. However, as discussed further below under Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges, our cloud software and on-premise software segments margin has been and will continue to be affected by the fair value adjustments relating to the cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations that we assumed in our business combinations and by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies and technologies that we have acquired. Cloud Infrastructure as a Service: Our cloud infrastructure as a service offerings, which represented 2% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term that is hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities; deployment and management offerings for our software and hardware and related IT infrastructure including virtual machine instances that are subscription-based and designed for computing and reliable and secure object storage; and certain of our Oracle Engineered Systems and related support offerings that are deployed in our customers data centers for a monthly fee. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates and product support revenues are generated through the sale of software support contracts relating to on-premise new software licenses purchased by our customers. Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration. Substantially all of our software license customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts, (2) the amount of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses and (3) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 50% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Our software support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 90% and accounted for 84% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license updates and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to software support obligations assumed in business combinations and by the amortization of intangible assets, both of which are discussed further below under Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our software support contract base. Even if new software licenses revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming contract renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant, since substantially all new software licenses transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our software support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our software support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. Hardware Business Our hardware business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware products and (2) hardware support. Our hardware business represented 13% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and on-premise software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide 28 Table of Contents support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. Hardware Products: We provide a broad selection of hardware and related services, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking, workstations and related devices, industry specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software to support diverse IT environments, including cloud computing environments. We engineer our hardware products with virtualization and management capabilities to enable the rapid deployment and efficient management of cloud and on-premise IT infrastructures. Our hardware products support many of the worlds largest cloud infrastructures, including the Oracle Cloud. Our hardware products are designed to be easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve computing performance relative to our competitors offerings. We design our hardware products to seamlessly connect on-premise and cloud IT environments to further enable interoperability, interchangeability and extendibility and to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. Our flexible and open approach provides Oracle customers with a broad range of choices in how they deploy our hardware products, which we believe is a priority for our customers. Oracle Engineered Systems are core to our hardware offerings and are important elements of our data center and cloud computing offerings including the Oracle Cloud. These pre-integrated products are designed to integrate multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors products; to be upgraded effectively and efficiently; and to simplify maintenance cycles by providing a single solution for software patching. Oracle Engineered Systems are tested before they are shipped to customers and delivered ready-to-run, enabling customers to shorten deployment time to production. We offer a wide range of server products using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed to be differentiated by their reliability, security, and scalability. Our mid-size and large servers are designed to offer better performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe products for business critical applications, for customers having more computationally intensive needs, and as platforms for building cloud computing IT environments. Our SPARC servers are also a core component of the Oracle SuperCluster, one of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We also offer enterprise x86 servers. These x86 servers are based on microprocessors from Intel Corporation and are compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our x86 servers are also a core component of many of our Oracle Engineered Systems including Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine and the Oracle Big Data Appliance. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, flash and hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our networking and data center fabric products, including Oracle Virtual Networking, and Oracle InfiniBand and Ethernet technologies, are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools to help enterprise customers improve infrastructure performance, reduce cost and complexity and simplify storage and server connectivity. We offer hardware products and services designed for specific industries. Our point-of-sale hardware offerings include point-of-sale terminals and related hardware that are designed for managing businesses within the food and beverage, hotel and retail industries, among others. Our hardware products and services for communications networks include network signaling, policy control and subscriber data management solutions, and session border control technology, among others. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. 29 Table of Contents To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our Oracle Engineered Systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers and storage products. For all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware-related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We strive to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types and a build-to-order manufacturing process in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. Our hardware products revenues, cost of hardware products and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware products, the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, certain of our acquisitions and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In addition, our operating margins for our hardware products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets. Our quarterly hardware products revenues are difficult to predict. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions, among other factors, could substantially affect the amount of hardware products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. Hardware Support: Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Typically, our hardware support contract arrangements are priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees, are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. We continue to evolve hardware support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new and renewed hardware support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware products. Our hardware support revenues that we report are influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale, the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and our acquisitions. Substantially all of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware support margins have been and will be affected by certain of our acquisitions and related accounting, including fair value adjustments relating to hardware support obligations assumed and by the amortization of intangible assets, both of which are discussed further below under Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges. Services Business Our services business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services, certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, personnel reductions in our customers IT departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and the growth in our software and hardware products revenues. Our services business offerings include: consulting services that are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our offerings, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial software implementation and integration, and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, consisting of on-premise consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers; 30 Table of Contents advanced customer support services, which are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services and also include certain other services; and education services for Oracle products and services, including training and certification programs that are offered to customers, partners and employees through a variety of formats, including instructor-led classes at our education centers, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training. Acquisitions A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies, including MICROS Systems, Inc. (MICROS) in the second quarter of fiscal 2015, among others. We believe our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our pending and recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 31 Table of Contents During the first half of fiscal 2016, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2015 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2015 was impacted by our recent acquisitions. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2015, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in certain of our operating segments revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. The contributions of our acquisitions to certain of our operating segments revenues, margins and expenses for each of the respective period comparisons, however, generally are not provided in our discussions, as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses and operating segments into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, and we strive to renew cloud SaaS and PaaS contracts and hardware support contracts, the amounts shown as cloud SaaS and PaaS deferred revenues, software license updates and product support deferred revenues, and hardware support deferred revenues in our Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our cloud software and on-premise software segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in 32 Table of Contents effect on May 31, 2015, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on November 30, 2015 and 2014, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.06 million in the first half of fiscal 2016 (using 1.06 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.24 million in the first half of fiscal 2015 (using 1.24 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and six months ended November 30, 2015 and 2014 using the May 31, 2015 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 4,960 -5% -2% $ 5,221 $ 9,677 -2% 2% $ 9,841 EMEA (1) 2,645 -9% 2% 2,911 5,101 -7% 5% 5,500 Asia Pacific (2) 1,388 -5% 4% 1,466 2,663 -7% 5% 2,853 Total revenues 8,993 -6% 0% 9,598 17,441 -4% 3% 18,194 Total Operating Expenses 6,038 0% 5% 6,056 11,832 1% 7% 11,688 Total Operating Margin $ 2,955 -17% -8% $ 3,542 $ 5,609 -14% -4% $ 6,506 Total Operating Margin % 33% 37% 32% 36% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 55% 55% 56% 54% EMEA 29% 30% 29% 30% Asia Pacific 16% 15% 15% 16% Total Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software $ 7,009 -4% 2% $ 7,329 $ 13,467 -3% 4% $ 13,905 Hardware 1,123 -16% -10% 1,334 2,250 -10% -2% 2,499 Services 861 -8% 0% 935 1,724 -4% 5% 1,790 Total revenues $ 8,993 -6% 0% $ 9,598 $ 17,441 -4% 3% $ 18,194 % Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software 78% 76% 77% 76% Hardware 12% 14% 13% 14% Services 10% 10% 10% 10% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) Asia Pacific includes Japan Fiscal Second Quarter 2016 Compared to Fiscal Second Quarter 2015: Our results of operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015 were significantly impacted by movements in international currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, which decreased our total revenues by 6 percentage points, total operating expenses by 5 percentage points and total operating margin by 9 percentage points. Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency variations of 6 percentage points, our total revenues were flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to constant currency growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which was attributable to growth in our software license updates and product support revenues, growth in our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS revenues, and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. This increase was offset by a constant currency decrease in our hardware business revenues during the second quarter of fiscal 2016. On a constant currency basis, total revenues growth in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions was offset by a modest decrease in Americas revenues. 33 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of favorable currency variations of 5 percentage points, our total operating expenses increased by 5 percentage points during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount, and increased cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses resulting from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues. These expense increases were partially offset by reductions in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. Further, during the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we recognized a $53 million benefit related to certain litigation which decreased our acquisition related and other expenses during this period. Excluding the effects of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to the increase in our total operating expenses. First Half Fiscal 2016 Compared to First Half Fiscal 2015: Our results of operations for the first half of fiscal 2016 compared to the first half of fiscal 2015 were significantly impacted by movements in international currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, which decreased our total revenues by 7 percentage points, total operating expenses by 6 percentage points and total operating margin by 10 percentage points. Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency variations of 7 percentage points, our total revenues increased by 3 percentage points in the first half of fiscal 2016 due to revenue increases in our cloud and on-premise software business and services business. The constant currency growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues during the first half of fiscal 2016 was due to similar reasons as noted above. The constant currency growth in our services business was primarily attributable to our recent acquisitions. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 35%, EMEA contributed 42% and Asia Pacific contributed 23% to the growth in our total revenues during the first half of fiscal 2016. Total constant currency operating expenses increased during the first half of fiscal 2016 due to similar reasons as noted above. Excluding the effects of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 10 percentage points, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first half of fiscal 2016 as total expenses increased at a faster rate than our total revenues. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other significant expense and income items: Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, (in millions) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cloud software as a service and platform as a service deferred revenues (1) $ 3 $ 3 $ 4 $ 5 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) 5 1 6 Hardware support deferred revenues (1) 2 1 2 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 423 568 875 1,116 Acquisition related and other (3)(5) (7 ) (20 ) 25 4 Restructuring (4) 95 51 178 120 Stock-based compensation (5) 254 240 504 451 Income tax effects (6) (230 ) (234 ) (451 ) (467 ) $ 538 $ 615 $ 1,137 $ 1,237 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and PaaS subscriptions, software support and hardware support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud SaaS and PaaS, software license updates and product support and hardware support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To 34 Table of Contents the extent customers to which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of November 30, 2015, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2016 $ 757 Fiscal 2017 1,005 Fiscal 2018 858 Fiscal 2019 751 Fiscal 2020 608 Fiscal 2021 466 Thereafter 1,154 Total intangible assets, net $ 5,599 (3) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. (4) Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2016 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2015 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2015 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2015 primarily related to costs incurred pursuant to our 2015 Restructuring Plan and our Fiscal 2013 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2013 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. (5) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales and marketing $ 55 $ 43 $ 107 $ 86 Cloud software as a service and platform as a service 4 3 8 5 Cloud infrastructure as a service 1 1 2 2 Software license updates and product support 6 4 12 9 Hardware products 2 1 3 3 Hardware support 1 2 3 3 Services 7 9 14 14 Research and development 151 134 298 242 General and administrative 27 43 57 87 Subtotal 254 240 504 451 Acquisition related and other 1 3 4 Total stock-based compensation $ 254 $ 241 $ 507 $ 455 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (6) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in effective tax rates of 20.4% and 22.6%, respectively, instead of 17.6% and 20.8%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016. Income tax effects for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2015 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 24.3% and 23.0%, respectively, instead of 23.5% and 21.7%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the same reasons as noted for the fiscal 2016 periods presented. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software business consists of our cloud software and on-premise software segment, our cloud infrastructure as a service segment and our software license updates and product support segment. 35 Table of Contents Cloud Software and On-Premise Software: Our cloud software and on-premise software segment engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our cloud software offerings, including our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings, and the licensing of our software for on-premise IT environments. Our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings grant customers access to a broad range of our application and platform software technologies on a subscription basis in a secure, standards-based, cloud computing environment that generally includes access, hosting, infrastructure management, the use of software updates, and support. New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware and our application software products within on-premise IT environments. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud software and on-premise software segment are included in sales and marketing expenses, cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses and amortization of intangible assets. These costs are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software offerings, marketing program costs, the cost of providing our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Cloud Software and On-Premise Software: Americas $ 1,157 -13% -10% $ 1,330 $ 2,072 -9% -6% $ 2,289 EMEA 605 -10% 0% 671 1,006 -8% 2% 1,096 Asia Pacific 399 -2% 7% 405 685 -6% 4% 728 Total revenues 2,161 -10% -5% 2,406 3,763 -8% -2% 4,113 Expenses: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service (1) 276 70% 79% 162 547 77% 85% 309 Sales and marketing (1) 1,648 3% 10% 1,601 3,092 2% 10% 3,035 Stock-based compensation 56 32% 32% 42 108 26% 26% 86 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 209 -19% -19% 255 430 -15% -15% 506 Total expenses 2,189 6% 12% 2,060 4,177 6% 13% 3,936 Total Margin $ (28 ) -108% -106% $ 346 $ (414 ) -334% -343% $ 177 Total Margin % -1% 14% -11% 4% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 55% 55% 56% EMEA 28% 28% 27% 26% Asia Pacific 18% 17% 18% 18% Revenues by Software Offerings: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service $ 484 34% 39% $ 361 $ 934 34% 39% $ 698 New software licenses 1,677 -18% -12% 2,045 2,829 -17% -11% 3,415 Total cloud software and on-premise software revenues $ 2,161 -10% -5% $ 2,406 $ 3,763 -8% -2% $ 4,113 % Revenues by Software Offerings: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service 22% 15% 25% 17% New software licenses 78% 85% 75% 83% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud software and on-premise software segment decreased by 5 and 2 percentage points in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively, due to a decrease in new software licenses revenues, partially offset by growth in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. The increase in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues and decrease in our new software licenses revenues during the fiscal 2016 periods presented were primarily due to the strategic emphasis placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud software 36 Table of Contents offerings and we expect this trend will continue for at least the near term. On a constant currency basis, total revenues growth in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions was offset by a decrease in Americas revenues during the second quarter of fiscal 2016. In reported currency, new software licenses revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater decreased by 32% and 31% in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively, and represented 25% and 23% of our new software licenses revenues in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively, in comparison to 30% and 27% in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2015, respectively. In constant currency, total cloud software and on-premise software expenses increased in the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily due to higher employee related expenses from increased headcount and higher cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses incurred to support the related revenues increase. Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, our cloud software and on-premise software segments total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the fiscal 2016 periods presented due to the decline in total revenues and growth in our total expenses for this operating segment. Cloud Infrastructure as a Service: Our cloud infrastructure as a service segment provides comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term that is hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities; virtual machine instance services that are subscription-based in which we deploy, secure, provision, manage and maintain certain of our hardware products for our customers to provide them with a set of cloud-based core infrastructure capabilities like elastic compute and storage services to run workloads in the cloud; and hardware and related support offerings for certain of our Oracle Engineered Systems that are deployed in our customers data centers for a monthly fee. Cloud IaaS expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs. For all periods presented, our cloud IaaS segments revenues and expenses were substantially attributable to our comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and hosting services. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Cloud Infrastructure as a Service Revenues: Americas $ 121 9% 13% $ 111 $ 237 12% 16% $ 211 EMEA 35 2% 7% 35 70 8% 16% 65 Asia Pacific 9 -2% 15% 9 18 6% 28% 17 Total revenues 165 7% 11% 155 325 11% 17% 293 Expenses: Cloud infrastructure as a service (1) 90 5% 9% 86 178 8% 14% 164 Sales and marketing (1) 16 -25% -23% 21 37 -5% -3% 40 Stock-based compensation 1 -1% -1% 1 2 0% 0% 2 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 1 * * 3 * * Total expenses 108 0% 4% 108 220 7% 12% 206 Total Margin $ 57 22% 29% $ 47 $ 105 20% 29% $ 87 Total Margin % 34% 30% 32% 30% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 73% 72% 73% 72% EMEA 22% 22% 22% 22% Asia Pacific 5% 6% 5% 6% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful 37 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, total cloud IaaS revenues increased in the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily due to growth in our comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and hosting services and, during the first quarter of fiscal 2016, incremental revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 79% and 71%, respectively, EMEA contributed 14% and 20%, respectively, and Asia Pacific contributed 7% and 9%, respectively, to the increase in cloud IaaS revenues during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively. On a constant currency basis, total cloud IaaS expenses increased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily due to increased employee related expenses associated with increased headcount and increased infrastructure expenses to support our increase in IaaS revenues. Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency exchange variances, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented as total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses for this operating segment. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to on-premise new software licenses purchased by our customers. Our software license updates and product support offerings include software license updates, which grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the support period, and product support including internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 2,649 2% 5% $ 2,603 $ 5,302 3% 6% $ 5,157 EMEA 1,426 -7% 4% 1,528 2,864 -7% 6% 3,066 Asia Pacific 608 -4% 6% 637 1,213 -5% 7% 1,276 Total revenues 4,683 -2% 5% 4,768 9,379 -1% 6% 9,499 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 287 -2% 8% 292 572 2% 11% 559 Stock-based compensation 6 51% 51% 4 12 29% 29% 9 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 139 -33% -33% 208 283 -29% -29% 398 Total expenses 432 -14% -9% 504 867 -10% -6% 966 Total Margin $ 4,251 0% 7% $ 4,264 $ 8,512 0% 8% $ 8,533 Total Margin % 91% 89% 91% 90% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 55% 57% 54% EMEA 30% 32% 30% 32% Asia Pacific 13% 13% 13% 14% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency variations of 7 percentage points in each fiscal 2016 period presented, software license updates and product support revenues increased by 5% and 6% in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively, as a result of new software licenses sold during these periods with substantially all of these customers electing to purchase software support contracts during the trailing 4-quarter period, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 38 Table of Contents 59% and 58%, respectively, EMEA contributed 26% and 27%, respectively, and Asia Pacific contributed 15% in both the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2016, respectively. Excluding the effects of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by certain higher employee related expenses. In addition, we recognized a benefit related to statutory obligations in certain jurisdictions in which we operate that we recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 that reduced our expenses in that period. Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented due to the growth in total revenues for this segment and the decrease of amortization of intangible assets. Hardware Business Our hardware business consists of our hardware products segment and hardware support segment. Hardware Products: Hardware products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer server, storage, networking, workstations and related devices and industry specific hardware products. We market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware products include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Hardware Products Revenues: Americas $ 304 -23% -20% $ 394 $ 602 -11% -7% $ 677 EMEA 151 -21% -9% 190 309 -12% 2% 349 Asia Pacific 118 -11% -3% 133 231 -14% -5% 269 Total revenues 573 -20% -14% 717 1,142 -12% -4% 1,295 Expenses: Hardware products (1) 323 -12% -5% 368 625 -6% 3% 664 Sales and marketing (1) 226 -3% 6% 232 439 -1% 9% 442 Stock-based compensation 5 10% 10% 5 10 24% 24% 8 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 35 -42% -42% 60 82 -29% -29% 116 Total expenses 589 -11% -4% 665 1,156 -6% 2% 1,230 Total Margin $ (16 ) -130% -131% $ 52 $ (14 ) -121% -121% $ 65 Total Margin % -3% 7% -1% 5% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 55% 53% 52% EMEA 26% 26% 27% 27% Asia Pacific 21% 19% 20% 21% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations 39 Table of Contents Fiscal Second Quarter 2016 Compared to Fiscal Second Quarter 2015: Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, total hardware products revenues decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to reductions in sales volumes of certain of our product lines, including lower margin products. Hardware products revenues decreased in each of the geographic regions in which we operate during the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Excluding the effects of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, total hardware products expenses decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to lower hardware products costs associated with lower hardware products revenues and due to reductions in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 as our total revenues decreased at a faster rate than the decrease in our total expenses for this operating segment. First Half Fiscal 2016 Compared to First Half Fiscal 2015: Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 8 percentage points, total hardware products revenues decreased in the first half of fiscal 2016 due to similar reasons as noted above. This decrease was partially offset by incremental revenues from our recently acquired companies, primarily MICROS, during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. On a constant currency basis, hardware products revenues decreased in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions and were partially offset by hardware products revenues increases in the EMEA region during the first half of fiscal 2016. Excluding the effects of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 8 percentage points, total hardware products expenses increased in the first half of fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in hardware products costs that was attributable to an increase in product revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and due to an increase in employee related expenses, both of which were primarily attributable to incremental contributions from MICROS during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. These constant currency expense increases in the first half of fiscal 2016 were partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first half of fiscal 2016 as our total revenues decreased while our total expenses increased. 40 Table of Contents Hardware Support: Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets primarily associated with hardware support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Hardware Support Revenues: Americas $ 291 -10% -7% $ 322 $ 582 -7% -3% $ 623 EMEA 165 -13% -3% 190 337 -8% 4% 368 Asia Pacific 94 -11% -1% 105 189 -11% 0% 213 Total revenues 550 -11% -5% 617 1,108 -8% -1% 1,204 Expenses: Hardware support (1) 173 -20% -14% 216 352 -14% -7% 407 Stock-based compensation 1 -30% -30% 2 3 -10% -10% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 37 -3% -3% 38 73 -14% -14% 85 Total expenses 211 -18% -13% 256 428 -14% -8% 495 Total Margin $ 339 -6% 1% $ 361 $ 680 -4% 5% $ 709 Total Margin % 62% 59% 61% 59% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 52% 53% 52% EMEA 30% 31% 30% 30% Asia Pacific 17% 17% 17% 18% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Second Quarter 2016 Compared to Fiscal Second Quarter 2015: Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, hardware support revenues decreased by 5 percentage points in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to reductions in sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines for which we offer hardware support. Hardware support revenues decreased in each of the geographic regions in which we operate during the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Excluding the effects of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, total hardware support expenses decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to a reduction in employee related and other expenses due to reduced headcount and reduced external contractor costs as we integrated MICROS into our existing operations. In addition, certain of our intangible assets became fully amortized and reduced expense during the second quarter of fiscal 2016. In constant currency, total hardware support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to the expense reductions for this operating segment. First Half Fiscal 2016 Compared to First Half Fiscal 2015: Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, hardware support revenues decreased in the first half of fiscal 2016 due to similar reasons as noted above. The decrease during the first half of fiscal 2016 was partially offset by incremental revenues from our recently acquired companies, primarily MICROS, during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. On a constant currency basis, hardware support revenues increased in the EMEA region and were partially offset by hardware products revenues decreases in the Americas region during the first half of fiscal 2016. 41 Table of Contents In constant currency, total hardware support expenses decreased and total hardware support margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the first half of fiscal 2016 primarily due to similar reasons as noted above. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, advanced customer support services and education services. Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial software implementation and integration, and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. Advanced customer support services are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services and also include certain other services. Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training in the use of our software and hardware offerings. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Services Revenues: Americas $ 438 -5% 0% $ 461 $ 882 0% 5% $ 884 EMEA 263 -12% -1% 297 515 -7% 5% 556 Asia Pacific 160 -10% 0% 177 327 -6% 5% 350 Total revenues 861 -8% 0% 935 1,724 -4% 5% 1,790 Expenses: Services (1) 683 -10% -2% 755 1,387 -4% 4% 1,441 Stock-based compensation 7 -20% -20% 9 14 0% 0% 14 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 2 -68% -68% 7 4 -59% -59% 11 Total expenses 692 -10% -3% 771 1,405 -4% 4% 1,466 Total Margin $ 169 3% 13% $ 164 $ 319 -2% 9% $ 324 Total Margin % 20% 18% 18% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 49% 51% 49% EMEA 30% 32% 30% 31% Asia Pacific 19% 19% 19% 20% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Second Quarter 2016 Compared to Fiscal Second Quarter 2015: Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 8 percentage points, our total services revenues were flat during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 as revenue growth in our advanced customer support segment that was primarily attributable to our recent acquisitions was offset by certain revenue declines that were primarily in our consulting segment. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, our total services expenses decreased during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to decreased employee related expenses resulting from lower headcount and lower external contractor costs. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total revenues for our services business increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to the expense decreases for this business. 42 Table of Contents First Half Fiscal 2016 Compared to First Half Fiscal 2015: Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points, our total services revenues increased during the first half of fiscal 2016 due primarily to increases in our consulting and our advanced customer support segments of which the majority of the growth was attributable to our recent acquisitions. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations of 8 percentage points, our total services expenses increased in the first half of fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses and higher external contractor costs, both of which were primarily attributable to incremental contributions from MICROS during our first quarter of fiscal 2016. In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues increased during the first half of fiscal 2016 as total revenues increased at a faster rate than the increase in our total expenses for this business. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Research and development (1) $ 1,293 3% 5% $ 1,255 $ 2,536 2% 5% $ 2,476 Stock-based compensation 151 13% 13% 134 298 24% 24% 242 Total expenses $ 1,444 4% 6% $ 1,389 $ 2,834 4% 7% $ 2,718 % of Total Revenues 16% 14% 16% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily due to increased employee related expenses resulting from increased headcount, including additional headcount from our recent acquisitions, and also due to increased infrastructure expenses. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 General and administrative (1) $ 258 13% 18% $ 229 $ 485 6% 11% $ 460 Stock-based compensation 27 -36% -36% 43 57 -35% -35% 87 Total expenses $ 285 5% 10% $ 272 $ 542 -1% 4% $ 547 % of Total Revenues 3% 3% 3% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily due to increased constant currency salaries expenses resulting from increased headcount and due to higher professional services expenses, primarily legal related expenses. 43 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets are acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 101 -35% -35% $ 156 $ 204 -31% -31% $ 295 Hardware support agreements and related relationships 36 -3% -3% 37 72 0% 0% 72 Developed technology 136 -24% -24% 180 293 -16% -16% 348 Core technology 23 -47% -47% 43 47 -55% -55% 104 Customer relationships and contract backlog 58 -32% -32% 85 123 -22% -22% 157 SaaS, PaaS and IaaS agreements and related relationships and other 54 8% 8% 50 107 9% 9% 98 Trademarks 15 -12% -12% 17 29 -31% -31% 42 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 423 -26% -26% $ 568 $ 875 -22% -22% $ 1,116 Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the fiscal 2016 periods presented due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. These decreases were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our acquisitions of MICROS in the second quarter of fiscal 2015, among others. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses result from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 8 -64% -63% $ 23 $ 33 3% 5% $ 32 Stock-based compensation -100% -100% 1 3 -30% -30% 4 Professional fees and other, net 4 110% 110% (44 ) 9 127% 127% (32 ) Business combination adjustments, net (19 ) * * (20 ) * * Total acquisition related and other expenses $ (7 ) 67% 69% $ (20 ) $ 25 505% 661% $ 4 (*) Not meaningful On a constant currency basis, the increase in acquisition related and other expenses during the fiscal 2016 periods presented was primarily due to a $53 million benefit related to certain litigation that we recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2015 which decreased acquisition related and other expenses during the fiscal 2015 periods presented. We also recorded an acquisition related benefit of $19 million in the fiscal 2016 periods presented, which reduced our expenses in the fiscal 2016 periods. 44 Table of Contents Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses result from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Restructuring expenses $ 95 85% 104% $ 51 $ 178 48% 74% $ 120 Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily related to our 2015 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2015 periods presented primarily related to our 2015 Restructuring Plan and our 2013 Restructuring Plan. Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are up to $626 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan were approximately $339 million as of November 30, 2015 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2016. Actions pursuant to the 2013 Restructuring Plan were substantially complete as of May 31, 2015 (Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2015 contains additional information pertaining to our 2013 Restructuring Plan). Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Interest expense $ 371 31% 31% $ 282 $ 745 37% 37% $ 544 Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2016 periods presented due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in May 2015. We also issued $10.0 billion of senior notes in July 2014, which contributed to additional interest expense during the first half of fiscal 2016 relative to the corresponding prior year period. The increases in interest expense during the fiscal 2016 periods presented were partially offset by reductions in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $1.5 billion of senior notes and the related fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in July 2014. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Interest income $ 123 55% 61% $ 79 $ 240 43% 49% $ 168 Foreign currency losses, net (28 ) -15% -9% (32 ) (53 ) -28% -36% (73 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (29 ) -22% -22% (37 ) (59 ) -28% -28% (83 ) Other income (loss), net 18 1,940% 1,479% (1 ) (14 ) 212% 214% 13 Total non-operating income, net $ 84 842% 1,135% $ 9 $ 114 355% 529% $ 25 45 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net for the fiscal 2016 periods presented increased due to higher interest income resulting from higher cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances, lower net foreign currency losses and lower noncontrolling interests in income. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended November 30, Six Months Ended November 30, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2015 Actual Constant 2014 2015 Actual Constant 2014 Provision for income taxes $ 471 -39% -32% $ 767 $ 1,033 -21% -10% $ 1,302 Effective tax rate 17.6% 23.5% 20.8% 21.7% Provision for income taxes in the fiscal 2016 periods presented decreased, relative to the provision for income taxes during the fiscal 2015 periods presented, due in substantial part to lower net income before provision for income taxes during the fiscal 2016 periods presented as well as settlements with certain tax authorities, partially offset by unfavorable changes in the jurisdictional mix of our earnings during the fiscal 2016 periods presented. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) November 30, 2015 Change May 31, 2015 Working capital $ 44,864 -5% $ 47,314 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 52,335 -4% $ 54,368 Working capital: The decrease in working capital as of November 30, 2015 in comparison to May 31, 2015 was primarily due to cash used for repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders during the first half of fiscal 2016. These unfavorable working capital movements were partially offset by the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first half of fiscal 2016. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at November 30, 2015 in comparison to May 31, 2015 was primarily due to cash used for repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends to our stockholders, both of which occurred during the first half of fiscal 2016. These decreases to our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash flows generated from our operations and, to a lesser extent, cash inflows from stock option exercises, both of which occurred during the first half of fiscal 2016. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $45.3 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of November 30, 2015, a significant portion of which was generated from the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries that we consider as indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations outside the United States. These undistributed earnings that are considered as indefinitely reinvested overseas would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets and is also 46 Table of Contents presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first half of fiscal 2016, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of November 30, 2015 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from our May 31, 2015 balance sheet date. Days sales outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 40 days at November 30, 2015 compared with 47 days at May 31, 2015. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the impact of revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations, software license updates and product support obligations and hardware support obligations to fair value. The decline in days sales outstanding was primarily due to strong collections in our first half of fiscal 2016 and seasonality resulting in a large volume of software license, hardware products and software support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2015. Six Months Ended November 30, (Dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,357 -18% $ 7,790 Net cash used for investing activities $ (3,338 ) -74% $ (12,909 ) Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities $ (7,026 ) 273% $ 4,066 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings, hardware products, hardware support arrangements, and services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first half of fiscal 2016 in comparison to the first half of fiscal 2015 primarily due to the cash unfavorable effects of lower net income, the related unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate variances of 11 percentage points on our net income during the first half of fiscal 2016 and certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances, primarily cash unfavorable movements associated with trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, and income taxes, relative to the corresponding changes for these items in the prior year period. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities decreased in the first half of fiscal 2016 primarily due to a decrease in net cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities) and a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures to support our cloud offerings and research and development functions. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. We used net cash for financing activities of $7.0 billion during the first half of fiscal 2016 in comparison to net cash provided by financing activities of $4.1 billion during the first half of fiscal 2015. The change in financing activities cash flows during the first half of fiscal 2016 in comparison to the first half of fiscal 2015 was primarily related to $8.4 billion of net cash proceeds from debt issuances, net of debt repayments, during the first half of fiscal 2015 (none during the first half of fiscal 2016). In addition, we also increased our stock repurchase activity during the first half of fiscal 2016, which increased our cash used in the fiscal 2016 period relative to the corresponding prior year period. 47 Table of Contents Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended November 30, (Dollars in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,903 -16% $ 15,273 Capital expenditures (1,606 ) 121% (727 ) Free cash flow $ 11,297 -22% $ 14,546 Net income $ 9,198 $ 10,896 Free cash flow as percent of net income 123% 133% Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $299 million and $484 million, respectively, or approximately 11% and 14%, respectively, of our new software licenses revenues in the first half of fiscal 2016 and 2015, and $61 million and $62 million, respectively, or approximately 5%, of our hardware products revenues in each of the first half of fiscal 2016 and 2015. Contractual Obligations: During the first half of fiscal 2016, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2015. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that stock options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2012 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.8% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new stock options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of stock options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all stock options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Of the outstanding stock options at 48 Table of Contents November 30, 2015, which generally have a 10-year exercise period, 12.4% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At November 30, 2015, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock options and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.9%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.