Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview We are the worlds largest provider of enterprise software and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services that are engineered to work together in the cloud and in the data center. Our offerings include Oracle database and middleware software, application software, cloud infrastructure, hardware systemsincluding computer server, storage and networking productsand related services. We develop and maintain our products and services to be enterprise-grade, reliable, secure and interoperable while offering customers a choice in deployment models that best meet their information technology (IT) needs. Our customers can subscribe to use many Oracle software and hardware products through our Oracle Cloud offerings, or purchase our software and hardware products and related services to build their own internal clouds or on-premise IT environments. Cloud computing IT environments, including those offered through our Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings, are designed to be attractive and cost-effective options for our customers as we integrate the software and hardware on the customers behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage on the customers behalf. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud computing, including database and middleware software as well as web-based applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our own cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to deliver reliable, secure and scalable products and services that are built upon industry standards and are engineered to work both together or independently, regardless of the deployment model selected. We believe that our investments in, and continued innovation with respect to, our software and cloud, hardware, and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plans. We have expanded our enterprise-grade cloud computing offerings through our continued investments in research and development and through targeted acquisitions in order to broaden our Oracle Cloud offerings. For example, our Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service offerings, including our sales, marketing, customer service, financials, project management, human capital and talent management cloud solutions, among others, enable us to provide IT functionality that customers can use to manage critical business functions in a rapidly deployable delivery model with lower upfront customer investment. Certain of our enterprise-grade cloud computing offerings include infrastructure based upon our Oracle Engineered Systems, including our Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud and Oracle SuperCluster products, among others. We designed our Oracle Engineered Systems to combine certain of our hardware and software offerings to increase computing performance relative to our competitors products, creating cost efficiencies, time savings and operational cost advantages for our customers. Our Oracle Engineered Systems provide the core infrastructure for our own on-premise IT data centers and those of our customers, and for cloud IT environments, including our own Oracle Cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud environments. We also continue to demonstrate our commitment to customer choice through ongoing enhancements to our Oracle E-Business Suite, Siebel, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards application software products and services, among others. We believe that an active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy as it enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. 27 Table of Contents We are organized into three businessessoftware and cloud, hardware systems and serviceswhich are further divided into certain operating segments. Each of our businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Our cloud infrastructure-as-a-service segment was established during our fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2014. Our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and historical results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 have been reclassified to reflect this new segment structure and will continue prospectively in our future filings. See Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, for additional information related to our operating segments. In addition, an overview of our three businesses and related operating segments follows. Software and Cloud Business Our software and cloud business, which represented 77% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of three operating segments: (1) new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions, (2) cloud infrastructure-as-a-service and (3) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software and cloud businesss total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our software products and cloud software subscriptions offerings, our software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions: We license our database and middleware, as well as our application software, and provide access to a broad range of our software through Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Oracle Cloud Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offerings (SaaS and PaaS collectively are referred to as cloud software subscriptions). Our software offerings are substantially built on a standards-based, integrated architecture that is designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructure. Our software offerings are substantially designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations for cloud or on-premise IT environments, and to support a choice of operating systems including Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products, among others. Our customers include businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We market and sell our software products and services to these customers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best fit their needs. We enable customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT environment at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. The growth in our new software licenses and our SaaS and PaaS revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software offerings, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license transactions are characterized by long sales cycles and the timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues. New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues represented 28% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our cloud software subscriptions contracts, which consist of SaaS and PaaS arrangements, are generally one to three years in duration and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. Our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segments margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short-term. However, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segments margin has been and will continue to be affected by the fair value adjustments relating to the cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations that we assumed in our business combinations (described further below) and by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies and technologies that we have acquired. For certain of our acquired businesses, we recorded adjustments to reduce the cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues related to acquired contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $2 million and $3 million for the three months ended August 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying cloud 28 Table of Contents SaaS and PaaS contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of these contracts over their respective contractual periods. Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service: Our cloud infrastructure-as-a-service offerings, which represented 1% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provide deployment and management offerings for our software and hardware and related IT infrastructure including virtual machine instances that are subscription-based and designed for computing and reliable and secure object storage; Oracle Engineered Systems hardware and related support that are deployed in our customers data centers for a monthly fee; and comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services arrangements for customer IT infrastructure for a stated term that is hosted at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration. Substantially all of our software license customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts, (2) the amount of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses and (3) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 48% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Our software support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 90% and accounted for 77% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license updates and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to software support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our software support contract base. Even if new software licenses revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming contract renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software licenses transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our software support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our software support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. We recorded adjustments to reduce software support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $1 million for the three months ended August 31, 2013. To the extent underlying software support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the software support contracts over the respective support periods, the majority of which are one year. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 13% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues 29 Table of Contents than our software and cloud business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. Hardware Systems Products: We provide a broad selection of hardware systems and related services including servers, storage, networking, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software to support diverse IT environments, including cloud computing environments. We engineer our hardware systems with virtualization and management capabilities to enable the rapid deployment and efficient management of cloud and on-premise IT infrastructures. Our hardware products and services are designed to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. This flexible and open approach provides Oracles customers with a broad range of choices in deploying hardware systems, which we believe is a priority for our customers. Our hardware products and services also help customers manage growing amounts of data and business requirements, meet increasing compliance and regulatory demands and reduce energy, space and operational costs. We have also engineered our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when our hardware and software products are combined as Oracle Engineered Systems. We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed to be differentiated by their reliability, security, and scalability. Our mid-size and large servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications, for customers having more computationally intensive needs, and as platforms for building cloud computing IT environments. Our SPARC servers are also a core component of the Oracle SuperCluster, one of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We also offer enterprise x86 servers. These x86 servers are based on microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our x86 servers are also a core component of many of our Oracle Engineered Systems including Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine and the Oracle Big Data Appliance. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, flash and hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our networking and data center fabric products, including Oracle Virtual Networking, and Oracle InfiniBand and Ethernet technologies, are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools to help enterprise customers improve infrastructure performance, reduce cost and complexity and simplify storage and server connectivity. We also offer hardware and software products and services for communications networks including network signaling, policy control and subscriber data management solutions, and session border control technology, among others. The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our Oracle Engineered Systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We strive to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types and a build-to-order manufacturing process in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. 30 Table of Contents Our hardware systems products revenues, cost of hardware systems products and hardware systems operating margins that we report are affected by our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware systems products, the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, certain of our acquisitions and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In addition, our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets. Our quarterly hardware systems products revenues are difficult to predict. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions, among other factors, could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our server, storage and networking products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. We continue to evolve hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new and renewed hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware systems products. Our hardware systems support revenues that we report are influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, whether customers decide to purchase hardware systems support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale, the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and our acquisitions. Substantially all of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by certain of our acquisitions and related accounting, including fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed, and by the amortization of intangible assets. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisitions to their estimated fair values. These amounts would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $1 million and $5 million for the three months ended August 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the respective support periods. Services Business Our services business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments. Our services business has lower margins than our software and cloud and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services, certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, personnel reductions in our customers IT departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and the growth in our software and hardware systems products revenues. Our services businesss offerings include: consulting services that are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our products, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, consisting of on-premise consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers; advanced customer support services, which are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services; and education services for Oracle products and services, including training and certification programs that are offered to customers, partners and employees through a variety of formats, including instructor-led classes at our education centers, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training. 31 Table of Contents Acquisitions An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Responsys, Inc. (Responsys) in the third quarter of fiscal 2014, among others. On June 22, 2014, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with MICROS Systems, Inc. (MICROS), a provider of integrated software, hardware and services solutions to the hospitality and retail industries. On July 3, 2014, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we commenced a tender offer to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of MICROS at a purchase price of $68.00 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest thereon, based upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. On September 3, 2014, pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, we accepted and paid for approximately 80% of the outstanding shares of MICROS common stock tendered in the offer for approximately $4.1 billion in cash. We provided for a subsequent offering period through September 5, 2014 at the same purchase price of $68.00 per share and we accepted an additional 7% of MICROS common stock tendered through this date for approximately $330 million. On September 8, 2014, we effectuated the merger of MICROS with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and applicable Maryland law and MICROS became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle. Pursuant to the merger, shares of MICROS common stock that were outstanding and not acquired by us were converted into, and cancelled in exchange for, the right to receive $68.00 per share in cash. The unvested equity awards to acquire MICROS common stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the conclusion of the merger were converted into equity awards denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement. We believe our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our pending and recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments 32 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. During the first quarter of fiscal 2015, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2014 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of Responsys in the third quarter of fiscal 2014. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we may qualitatively disclose the impacts of our acquired products (for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in our new software licenses and cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues, software license updates and product support revenues, hardware systems products revenues and hardware systems support revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products. The contributions of our acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments revenues and to the expense contributions for substantially all of our businesses and operating segments in each of the respective period comparisons are not provided in our discussions as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses and operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we strive to renew cloud SaaS and PaaS contracts and hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as cloud SaaS and PaaS deferred revenues, software license updates and product support deferred revenues, and hardware systems support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. Our total revenues 33 Table of Contents and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2014, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2014 and 2013, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.32 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 (using 1.32 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.33 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 (using 1.33 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 2014 using the May 31, 2014 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 4,620 2% 3% $ 4,517 EMEA (1) 2,589 6% 4% 2,439 Asia Pacific (2) 1,387 -2% -3% 1,416 Total revenues 8,596 3% 2% 8,372 Total Operating Expenses 5,633 2% 2% 5,499 Total Operating Margin $ 2,963 3% 2% $ 2,873 Total Operating Margin % 34% 34% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 54% EMEA 30% 29% Asia Pacific 16% 17% Total Revenues by Business: Software and Cloud $ 6,576 6% 6% $ 6,193 Hardware Systems 1,165 -8% -8% 1,261 Services 855 -7% -8% 918 Total revenues $ 8,596 3% 2% $ 8,372 % Revenues by Business: Software and Cloud 76% 74% Hardware Systems 14% 15% Services 10% 11% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) Asia Pacific includes Japan 34 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 by 2 percentage points due to increases in our software and cloud revenues, which were substantially attributable to growth in our software license updates and product support revenues and, to a lesser extent, our SaaS and PaaS revenues. The constant currency increase in our software and cloud revenues was partially offset by a decrease in our hardware systems revenues and by a decrease in our services revenues. On a constant currency basis, total revenues growth in the Americas and EMEA regions was partially offset by a decrease in Asia Pacific regional revenues. Total constant currency operating expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in sales and marketing and research and development expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher variable compensation expenses that were primarily sales-based, and an increase in cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses to support the increase in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues. These constant currency expense increases in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 were partially offset by certain constant currency expense decreases, primarily in our hardware systems and services businesses, during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. In addition, we incurred lower amortization of intangible assets during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our operating margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to our revenues growth, while our operating margin as a percentage of revenues was flat. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other significant expense and income items: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 Cloud software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service deferred revenues (1) $ 2 $ 3 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) 1 Hardware systems support deferred revenues (1) 1 5 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 547 595 Acquisition related and other (3)(5) 25 10 Restructuring (4) 69 56 Stock-based compensation (5) 212 198 Income tax effects (6) (234 ) (298 ) $ 622 $ 570 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and PaaS subscriptions, software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues related to subscription contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $2 million and $3 million for the three months ended August 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $1 million for the three months ended August 31, 2013. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $1 million and $5 million for the three months ended August 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Approximately $1 million of estimated cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues related to contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2015 that would have otherwise been recognized as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of the aforementioned business combination accounting rules. Approximately $1 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2015 that would have otherwise been recognized by certain acquired companies as independent entities due to the application of the aforementioned business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. 35 Table of Contents (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2014, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2015 $ 1,395 Fiscal 2016 1,345 Fiscal 2017 749 Fiscal 2018 611 Fiscal 2019 511 Fiscal 2020 387 Thereafter 592 Total intangible assets subject to amortization 5,590 In-process research and development 15 Total intangible assets, net $ 5,605 (3) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. (4) The significant majority of restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 2014 related to employee severance and facility exit costs in connection with our Fiscal 2013 Oracle Restructuring Plan (the 2013 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. (5) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2014 2013 Sales and marketing $ 43 $ 39 Cloud software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service 2 2 Cloud infrastructure-as-a-service 1 1 Software license updates and product support 5 6 Hardware systems products 1 2 Hardware systems support 1 3 Services 6 6 Research and development 108 97 General and administrative 45 42 Subtotal 212 198 Acquisition related and other 3 2 Total stock-based compensation $ 215 $ 200 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (6) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 2014 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in effective tax rates of 21.5% and 21.8%, respectively, instead of 19.7% and 17.7%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Software and Cloud Business Our software and cloud business consists of our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment, our cloud infrastructure-as-a-service segment and our software license updates and product support segment. New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions: New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware and our application software products. Cloud software subscriptions include revenues from our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings, which grant customers access to a broad range of our software offerings on a subscription basis in a secure, standards-based, 36 Table of Contents cloud computing environment that includes access, hosting, infrastructure management, the use of software updates, and support. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Costs associated with our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment are included in sales and marketing expenses, cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses and amortization of intangible assets. These costs are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software offerings, marketing program costs, the cost of providing our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions Revenues: Americas $ 960 4% 4% $ 926 EMEA 424 9% 8% 388 Asia Pacific 323 -5% -6% 339 Total revenues 1,707 3% 3% 1,653 Expenses: Cloud software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service (1) 147 47% 46% 100 Sales and marketing (1) 1,435 7% 7% 1,339 Stock-based compensation 43 7% 7% 40 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 250 2% 2% 244 Total expenses 1,875 9% 8% 1,723 Total Margin $ (168 ) 140% 138% $ (70 ) Total Margin % -10% -4% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 56% 56% EMEA 25% 23% Asia Pacific 19% 21% Revenues by Software Offerings: New software licenses $ 1,370 -2% -2% $ 1,399 Cloud software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service 337 32% 32% 254 Total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues $ 1,707 3% 3% $ 1,653 % Revenues by Software Offerings: New software licenses 80% 85% Cloud software-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service 20% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues increased by 3 percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to growth in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues, which was attributable to growth in our legacy SaaS and PaaS offerings and contributions from our recent acquisitions. These revenue increases were partially offset by a slight decline in our new software licenses revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues growth in the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by a decline in revenues in the Asia Pacific region. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues in the amounts of $2 million and $3 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarters of fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. To the extent underlying cloud SaaS and PaaS contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the cloud SaaS and PaaS contracts over the respective contractual periods. 37 Table of Contents In reported currency, new software licenses revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater decreased by 20% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and represented 23% of our new software licenses revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 in comparison to 28% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher employee related expenses from increased headcount, higher variable compensation expenses and higher cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses incurred to support the related revenues increase. Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as our total revenues increased at a slower rate than our total expenses for this operating segment. Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service: Our cloud infrastructure-as-a-service segment provides deployment and management offerings for our software and hardware and related IT infrastructure including virtual machine instances that are subscription-based and designed for computing and reliable and secure object storage; Oracle Engineered Systems hardware and related support that are deployed in our customers data centers for a monthly fee; and comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term that is hosted at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. Cloud infrastructure-as-a-service expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs. For all periods presented, our cloud-infrastructure-as-a-service segments revenues and expenses were substantially attributable to our comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and hosting services. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Cloud Infastructure-as-a-Service Revenues: Americas $ 99 18% 18% $ 84 EMEA 31 59% 47% 19 Asia Pacific 8 44% 46% 6 Total revenues 138 26% 25% 109 Expenses: Cloud infastructure-as-a-service (1) 78 10% 9% 71 Sales and marketing (1) 18 33% 32% 14 Stock-based compensation 1 8% 8% 1 Total expenses 97 13% 12% 86 Total Margin $ 41 75% 72% $ 23 Total Margin % 29% 21% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 72% 77% EMEA 22% 18% Asia Pacific 6% 5% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total cloud IaaS revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to growth in our legacy management, maintenance and hosting services. In constant currency, the Americas contributed 56%, EMEA contributed 35%, and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to our total cloud IaaS revenues growth. On a constant currency basis, total cloud IaaS expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to increased employee related expenses associated with increased headcount. Total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total expenses for this operating segment. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the support period. 38 Table of Contents Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 2,555 5% 6% $ 2,425 EMEA 1,537 9% 6% 1,409 Asia Pacific 639 7% 6% 597 Total revenues 4,731 7% 6% 4,431 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 267 -5% -6% 282 Stock-based compensation 5 -4% -4% 6 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 190 -8% -8% 206 Total expenses 462 -6% -7% 494 Total Margin $ 4,269 8% 8% $ 3,937 Total Margin % 90% 89% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 55% EMEA 32% 32% Asia Pacific 14% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased by 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as a result of new software licenses sold with substantially all of these customers electing to purchase software support contracts during the trailing 4-quarter period, and the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 35% and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed software support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts in the amount of $1 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarter of 2014. Historically, substantially all of our software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to a reduction in expenses related to certain statutory obligations in jurisdictions in which we operate and due to a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as our total revenues for this segment increased while our total expenses decreased. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business consists of our hardware systems products segment and hardware systems support segment. 39 Table of Contents Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server, storage and networking products, including sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Hardware Systems Products Revenues: Americas $ 282 -16% -15% $ 335 EMEA 160 -10% -11% 177 Asia Pacific 136 -13% -14% 157 Total revenues 578 -14% -14% 669 Expenses: Hardware systems products (1) 297 -10% -10% 328 Sales and marketing (1) 210 -8% -8% 228 Stock-based compensation 3 1% 1% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 56 -33% -33% 83 Total expenses 566 -12% -12% 642 Total Margin $ 12 -54% -53% $ 27 Total Margin % 2% 4% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 49% 50% EMEA 28% 26% Asia Pacific 23% 24% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, due to reductions in the sales volumes of certain of our legacy product lines, including lower margin products. This decrease was partially offset by incremental revenues from our recently acquired companies and increases in hardware revenues attributable to our sales of Oracle Engineered Systems. In constant currency, total hardware systems products operating expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to a reduction in hardware systems products costs associated with lower hardware revenues and a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to a decrease in our total revenues at a faster rate than decreases in our total expenses for this segment. Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our server, storage and networking products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely 40 Table of Contents personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Hardware Systems Support Revenues: Americas $ 301 -1% -1% $ 304 EMEA 178 -2% -4% 181 Asia Pacific 108 1% 0% 107 Total revenues 587 -1% -2% 592 Expenses: Hardware systems support (1) 191 -8% -9% 206 Stock-based compensation 1 -67% -67% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 47 -17% -17% 58 Total expenses 239 -10% -10% 267 Total Margin $ 348 6% 6% $ 325 Total Margin % 59% 55% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 51% EMEA 31% 31% Asia Pacific 18% 18% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the impact of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, hardware systems support revenues decreased by 2 percentage points primarily due to modest hardware support revenues declines in the Americas and EMEA regions. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts in the amounts of $1 million and $5 million that would have been otherwise reported by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarters of fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. To the extent these underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of these contracts over the future support periods. Total hardware systems support expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to a reduction in employee related expenses attributable to decreased headcount, reduced service delivery costs due to operational initiatives and decreased amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to the reductions in our total expenses for this segment. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, advanced customer support services and education services. Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. Advanced customer support services are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services. Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based, internet-based and custom training in 41 Table of Contents the use of our software and hardware offerings. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Services Revenues: Americas $ 423 -5% -4% $ 443 EMEA 259 -2% -4% 265 Asia Pacific 173 -18% -19% 210 Total revenues 855 -7% -8% 918 Expenses: Services (1) 685 -4% -5% 714 Stock-based compensation 6 -11% -11% 6 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 4 -8% -8% 4 Total expenses 695 -4% -5% 724 Total Margin $ 160 -17% -18% $ 194 Total Margin % 19% 21% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 50% 48% EMEA 30% 29% Asia Pacific 20% 23% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due primarily to revenue decreases in our consulting services segment. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services expenses decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to expense decreases in our consulting services segment that were primarily attributable to decreased headcount, lower variable compensation, lower external contractor costs, and lower intangible asset amortization. In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to a reduction in total revenues for this business. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Research and development (1) $ 1,221 7% 7% $ 1,140 Stock-based compensation 108 10% 10% 97 Total expenses $ 1,329 7% 7% $ 1,237 % of Total Revenues 16% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to increases in employee related expenses from increased headcount. 42 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 General and administrative (1) $ 231 6% 6% $ 218 Stock-based compensation 45 5% 5% 42 Total expenses $ 276 6% 5% $ 260 % of Total Revenues 3% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher variable compensation expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets are acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. For additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 139 -4% -4% $ 145 Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships 35 0% 0% 35 Developed technology 167 -12% -12% 190 Core technology 61 -27% -27% 83 Customer relationships and contract backlog 72 -22% -22% 92 SaaS and PaaS agreements and related relationships and other 48 50% 50% 32 Trademarks 25 39% 39% 18 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 547 -8% -8% $ 595 Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 as certain of our intangible assets pertaining to our legacy acquisitions became fully amortized. These decreases were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of Responsys in fiscal 2014, among others. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 9 39% 37% $ 6 Stock-based compensation 3 29% 29% 2 Professional fees and other, net 13 354% 341% 3 Business combination adjustments, net -86% -86% (1 ) Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 25 138% 134% $ 10 43 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, the increase in acquisition related and other expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase in certain employee-based costs and was also attributable to a net benefit in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, which related to certain statutory obligations for jurisdictions in which certain of our legacy acquisitions operated and which reduced our expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses result from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Restructuring expenses $ 69 23% 21% $ 56 Restructuring expenses in the first quarters of fiscal 2015 and 2014 primarily related to our 2013 Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. We amended the 2013 Restructuring Plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to reflect additional actions that we expect to take to improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2013 Restructuring Plan are $705 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2013 Restructuring Plan were approximately $126 million as of August 31, 2014. The majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2015. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Interest expense $ 261 21% 21% $ 217 Interest expense increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuances of $10.0 billion of senior notes in July 2014 and $3.0 billion and 2.0 billion of senior notes in July 2013. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $1.5 billion of senior notes and the related fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in July 2014. See Recent Financing Activities below and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding our fiscal 2015 borrowings. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Interest income $ 89 56% 53% $ 57 Foreign currency losses, net (41 ) 18% 22% (35 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (46 ) 163% 163% (17 ) Other income, net 14 800% 803% 2 Total non-operating income, net $ 16 144% 80% $ 7 44 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from higher average cash and marketable securities balances. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Provision for income taxes $ 534 13% 12% $ 472 Effective tax rate 19.7% 17.7% Provision for income taxes in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased, relative to the provision for income taxes during the first quarter of fiscal 2014, due to the effects of acquisition related settlements with tax authorities in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, partially offset by a tax favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of our earnings in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2014 Change May 31, 2014 Working capital $ 44,817 33% $ 33,749 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 51,616 33% $ 38,819 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of August 31, 2014 in comparison to May 31, 2014 was primarily due to our issuance of $10.0 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2014, the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, and, to a lesser extent, cash proceeds from stock option exercises. These working capital increases were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, cash used for repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders, all of which occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2014 in comparison to May 31, 2014 was due to an increase in cash generated from our operating activities, our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in July 2014, and to a lesser extent, cash proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by repurchases of our common stock, cash paid for acquisitions, the repayment of $1.5 billion of senior notes and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $39.2 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 31, 2014, a significant portion of which was generated from the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries that we consider as indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations outside the United States. These undistributed earnings that are considered as indefinitely reinvested overseas would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed 45 Table of Contents consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2014 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from our May 31, 2014 balance sheet date. Days sales outstanding, which was calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 37 days at August 31, 2014 compared with 48 days at May 31, 2014. The days sales outstanding calculation excluded the impact of revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations, software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value. Our decline in days sales outstanding was primarily due to strong collections in our first quarter of fiscal 2015 and seasonality resulting in a large volume of software license and software support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2014. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2014 Change 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,728 7% $ 6,292 Net cash used for investing activities $ (6,700 ) 91% $ (3,501 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 6,520 179% $ 2,341 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings, hardware systems products, hardware systems support arrangements, and services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware systems products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 primarily due to certain cash favorable changes in working capital balances, primarily cash favorable movements associated with income taxes payable and deferred revenues, relative to the corresponding changes for these balances in the prior year period. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to an increase in net cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities) and an increase in capital expenditures, partially offset by a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, in each case compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to a net increase in borrowings in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 (we issued $10.0 billion of senior notes during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 in comparison to 2.0 billion and $3.0 billion of senior notes during the first quarter of fiscal 2014), lower stock repurchase activity during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and an increase in proceeds from issuances of common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. These favorable impacts to our financing cash flows during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 were partially offset by the repayment of $1.5 billion of borrowings pursuant to senior notes maturities during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 (no repayments during the first quarter of fiscal 2014). Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We 46 Table of Contents believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2014 Change 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,357 3% $ 14,845 Capital expenditures (1) (628 ) -5% (664 ) Free cash flow $ 14,729 4% $ 14,181 Net income $ 10,948 $ 11,082 Free cash flow as percent of net income 135% 128% (1) Derived from capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities as per our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware systems products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. We financed $156 million and $236 million, respectively, or approximately 11% and 17%, respectively, of our new software licenses revenues in the first quarters of fiscal 2015 and 2014, and $26 million and $34 million, respectively, or approximately 4% and 5%, respectively, of our hardware systems products revenues in the first quarters of fiscal 2015 and 2014. Recent Financing Activities: Senior Notes : In July 2014, we issued $10.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $1.0 billion of floating rate notes due July 2017 (2017 Notes), $750 million of floating rate notes due October 2019 (2019 Floating Rate Notes), $2.0 billion of 2.25% notes due October 2019 (2019 Notes), $1.5 billion of 2.80% notes due July 2021 (2021 Notes), $2.0 billion of 3.40% notes due July 2024 (2024 Notes), $1.75 billion of 4.30% notes due July 2034 (2034 Notes) and $1.0 billion of 4.50% notes due July 2044 (2044 Notes, and together with the 2017 Notes, 2019 Floating Rate Notes, 2019 Notes, 2021 Notes, 2024 Notes and 2034 Notes, the Senior Notes). We issued the Senior Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, our acquisition of MICROS Systems, Inc. in September 2014 and future acquisitions, and repayment of indebtedness. Additional details regarding the Senior Notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. In July 2014, our 3.75% senior notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes) for $1.5 billion matured and were repaid, and we settled the fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements associated with such fixed rate senior notes. Interest Rate Swap Agreements : In July 2014, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes so that the interest payable on these notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. As of August 31, 2014, our 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes had effective interest rates of 0.72% and 0.87%, respectively, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging . Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Notes 6 and 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Common Stock Repurchases : Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 18, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $13.0 billion. Approximately $2.3 billion remained available for 47 Table of Contents stock repurchases as of August 31, 2014 pursuant to our stock repurchase program prior to the additional amount authorized in September 2014. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations, our stock price and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Contractual Obligations: During the first quarter of fiscal 2015, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2014 other than those items noted under Recent Financing ActivitiesSenior Notes andInterest Rate Swap Agreements above and the acquisition of MICROS Systems, Inc. (MICROS) described below. On June 22, 2014, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with MICROS, a provider of integrated software, hardware and services solutions to the hospitality and retail industries. On July 3, 2014, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we commenced a tender offer to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of MICROS at a purchase price of $68.00 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest thereon, based upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. On September 3, 2014, pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, we accepted and paid for approximately 80% of the outstanding shares of MICROS common stock tendered in the offer for approximately $4.1 billion in cash. We provided for a subsequent offering period through September 5, 2014 at the same purchase price of $68.00 per share and we accepted an additional 7% of MICROS common stock tendered through this date for approximately $330 million. On September 8, 2014, we effectuated the merger of MICROS with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and applicable Maryland law and MICROS became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle. Pursuant to the merger, shares of MICROS common stock that were outstanding and not acquired by us were converted into, and cancelled in exchange for, the right to receive $68.00 per share in cash. The unvested equity awards to acquire MICROS common stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the conclusion of the merger were converted into equity awards denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement. We also have entered into certain other non-material agreements to acquire other companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements, including the acquisitions of MICROS and others. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that stock options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2011 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 2.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new stock options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of stock 48 Table of Contents options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all stock options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Of the outstanding stock options at May 31, 2014, which generally have a 10-year exercise period, approximately 1.0% have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2014, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock options and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 11.0%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.