Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments. Our products and services include enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployments). Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers needs. Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We have three businesses: cloud and license; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. The descriptions set forth below as a part of this Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the information contained within Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments and align to how our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer, view our operating results and allocate resources. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business, which represented 84% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of enterprise applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings. Revenue streams included in our cloud and license business are: Cloud services and license support revenues, which include: o license support revenues, which are earned by providing Oracle license support services to customers that have elected to purchase support services in connection with the purchase of Oracle applications and infrastructure software licenses for use in cloud, on-premise and other IT environments. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements, which current license support customers are entitled to receive. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase a cloud license and/or on-premise license; are generally billed in advance of the support services being performed; are generally renewed at the customers option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period that the support services are provided, which is generally one year; and o cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, deploys, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; generally have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customers option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, 27 Table of Contents which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized as revenues up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point-in-time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as further described above . Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. The proportion of our cloud services revenues relative to our total revenues has increased and we expect this trend to continue. Cloud services revenues represented 31% and 25% of our total revenues in the first three months of fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our cloud and license business revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; customer satisfaction with our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; our ability to manage Oracle Cloud capacity requirements to meet existing and prospective customer demand; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and license revenues generally will continue to increase due to: expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings; and continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business total revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development and our cloud operations to develop, improve, increase the capacity of and expand the geographic footprint of our cloud and license products and services. Our cloud and license business margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably or based upon customer usage over the respective contractual terms and the renewal of existing customers cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues in a similar manner; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; in each case over those four fiscal quarterly periods. Hardware Business Our hardware business, which represented 7% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of enterprise hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware offerings, operating systems, virtualization, management and 28 Table of Contents other hardware-related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms . We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by many factors, including our manufacturing partners abilities to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions, with this factor becoming more pronounced in recent periods due to global supply chain constraints for certain technology components; our strategy for and the position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings, including cloud infrastructure offerings; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; and foreign currency rate fluctuations . Services Business Our services business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services and advanced customer services. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are affected by many factors including our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the related services that we may market and sell in connection with these offerings; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers IT departments; tighter controls over customer discretionary spending; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Historically, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. As compelling opportunities become available, we may acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. We have acquired certain companies and technologies during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and full year fiscal 2022, including Cerner. Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information related to our acquisition of Cerner and our other recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of 29 Table of Contents additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flows and return on invested capital targets, among others, before deciding to move forward with an acquisition . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Revenue Recognition; Business Combinations; Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Legal and Other Contingencies. During the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and increased the estimated useful lives from four years to five years, effective at the beginning of fiscal 2023. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for more information. There were no other significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2022 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the same period of fiscal 2022 was impacted by our recent acquisitions, including Cerner. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the same period of fiscal 2022, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date to the growth in certain of our operating segments revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons generally were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses and operating segments into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated operating expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statements of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. 30 Table of Contents In addition, we discuss below the results of each of our three businessescloud and license, hardware and serviceswhich are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting . The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each of our three businesses in the discussion below . Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating expenses, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our three businesses including such items and/or it is impracticable to do so. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. We experienced COVID-19 related impacts to our businesses during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022. Certain of these historical impacts to our operating results are further discussed below. Any future impacts are currently unknown. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses revenues and expenses. As a result, each of our businesses revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2022, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2022 and 2021, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 (using 1.0 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.17 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 (using 1.17 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022 using the May 31, 2022 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 31 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Total Revenues by Geography : Americas $ 7,192 35% 36% $ 5,321 EMEA (1) 2,691 -3% 8% 2,784 Asia Pacific 1,562 -4% 7% 1,623 Total revenues 11,445 18% 23% 9,728 Total Operating Expenses 8,822 40% 45% 6,301 Total Operating Margin $ 2,623 -23% -17% $ 3,427 Total Operating Margin % 23% 35% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 63% 55% EMEA 23% 28% Asia Pacific 14% 17% Total Revenues by Business : Cloud and license $ 9,321 14% 19% $ 8,184 Hardware 763 0% 5% 763 Services 1,361 74% 84% 781 Total revenues $ 11,445 18% 23% $ 9,728 % Revenues by Business : Cloud and license 81% 84% Hardware 7% 8% Services 12% 8% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased across all of our three businesses in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to revenue contributions from our acquisition of Cerner. Excluding the impact of our acquisition of Cerner, the constant currency increase during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 in our cloud and license business revenues was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues and cloud license and on-premise license revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and also renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support services, and in our services business revenues was attributable to an increase in revenues for each of our primary services offerings. In reported currency, Cerner contributed $1.4 billion to our total revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In constant currency, the Americas, the EMEA and the Asia Pacific regions contributed 86%, 9% and 5%, respectively, to our total revenue growth during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. 32 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to additional operating expenses as a result of our acquisition of Cerner , including higher intangible assets amortization; higher cloud services and license support expenses, which were primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount, and infrastructure investments that were made to support the increase in our cloud and license business revenues; higher sales and marketing, higher services expenses, and higher research and development expenses, each of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount; and higher restructuring expenses. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we recorded a $125 million gain on an operating asset sale, which was allocated as a benefit to most of our operating expense lines as presented per our condensed consolidated statement of operations which reduced our total operating expenses during the same period. During each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022, we curtailed certain variable expenditures including employee travel expenses, among others, primarily in response to COVID-19. We expect certain of these expenses may normalize in future periods provided global economic and health conditions improve . In constant currency, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to total expenses growth. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions and certain other expense and income items that affected our GAAP net income: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Amortization of intangible assets (1) $ 919 $ 303 Acquisition related and other (2) 41 21 Restructuring (3) 144 38 Stock-based compensation, operating segments (4) 244 152 Stock-based compensation, R&D and G&A (4) 506 393 Income tax effects (5) (574 ) (420 ) $ 1,280 $ 487 ( 1 ) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2022, estimated future amortization related to intangible assets was as follows (in millions): Remainder of fiscal 2023 $ 2,753 Fiscal 2024 3,086 Fiscal 2025 2,105 Fiscal 2026 1,615 Fiscal 2027 664 Fiscal 2028 635 Thereafter 1,641 Total intangible assets, net $ 12,499 ( 2 ) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. ( 3 ) Restructuring expenses during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2022 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2022 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in managements discussion below under Restructuring Expenses, in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2022. 33 Table of Contents ( 4 ) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2022 2021 Cloud services and license support $ 91 $ 40 Hardware 4 3 Services 25 14 Sales and marketing 124 95 Stock-based compensation, operating segments 244 152 Research and development 422 344 General and administrative 84 49 Total stock-based compensation $ 750 $ 545 ( 5 ) For each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before income taxes after excluding the tax effects of items within the table above such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain acquisition related and other items, and after excluding the net deferred tax effects associated with a previously recorded income tax benefit that resulted from a partial realignment of our legal entity structure, resulted in effective tax rates of 19.4% and 18.0%, respectively, instead of 6.5% and 8.4%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business engages in the sale and marketing of our applications and infrastructure technologies that are delivered through various deployment models and include: Oracle license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and Oracle cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of applications and infrastructure license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses; are purchased by our customers at their option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, deploy, host, manage and support. Revenues for our cloud services are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 34 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Cloud and License Revenues : Americas $ 5,887 28% 29% $ 4,582 EMEA 2,184 -5% 6% 2,297 Asia Pacific 1,250 -4% 7% 1,305 Total revenues 9,321 14% 19% 8,184 Expenses : Cloud services and license support (1) 1,620 40% 45% 1,153 Sales and marketing (1) 1,930 19% 24% 1,626 Total expenses (1) 3,550 28% 33% 2,779 Total Margin $ 5,771 7% 12% $ 5,405 Total Margin % 62% 66% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 63% 56% EMEA 24% 28% Asia Pacific 13% 16% Revenues by Offerings : Cloud services $ 3,579 45% 50% $ 2,461 License support 4,838 -1% 4% 4,910 Cloud license and on-premise license 904 11% 19% 813 Total revenues $ 9,321 14% 19% $ 8,184 Cloud Services and License Support Revenues by Ecosystem : Applications cloud services and license support $ 4,016 32% 37% $ 3,041 Infrastructure cloud services and license support 4,401 2% 7% 4,330 Total cloud services and license support revenues $ 8,417 14% 20% $ 7,371 ( 1 ) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain expense allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues and growth in our cloud license and on-premise license revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support for which we delivered such cloud and support services during the periods presented; and revenue contributions from our Cerner acquisition. In reported currency, Cerner contributed $870 million to our cloud and license business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In constant currency, the Americas, the EMEA and the Asia Pacific regions contributed 86%, 9% and 5%, respectively, of the constant currency revenue growth for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In constant currency, our total cloud and license business expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount; higher technology infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud and license business revenues; and additional operating expenses due to our Cerner acquisition. Our cloud services and license support expenses have grown in recent periods and we expect this growth to continue during fiscal 2023 as we increase our existing data center capacity and establish data centers in new geographic locations in order to meet current and expected customer demand. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to increases in total revenues for this business. Total margin as a percentage of revenues for this business decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to expenses growth. 35 Table of Contents Hardware Business Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware offerings. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and that are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty and related expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products with eligible support contracts; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Hardware Revenues : Americas $ 407 10% 10% $ 372 EMEA 210 -10% 0% 232 Asia Pacific 146 -8% 1% 159 Total revenues 763 0% 5% 763 Expenses : Hardware products and support (1) 243 2% 6% 238 Sales and marketing (1) 79 -11% -7% 89 Total expenses (1) 322 -2% 3% 327 Total Margin $ 441 1% 7% $ 436 Total Margin % 58% 57% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 53% 49% EMEA 28% 30% Asia Pacific 19% 21% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain expense allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAPbased expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Our constant currency hardware revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to revenue contributions from our Cerner acquisition. In reported currency, Cerner contributed $41 million to our hardware business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Our hardware business revenues were adversely impacted during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including global supply chain shortages for technology components that resulted in certain manufacturing delays, and any such prospective impacts are unknown. Geographically, we experienced constant currency revenue growth in the Americas and the Asia Pacific regions, partially offset by constant currency revenue decreases in the EMEA region during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. 36 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher hardware product cost attributed to Cerners hardware business . In constant currency, our hardware business total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 due to higher total revenues for this business. Services Business Our services offerings are designed to help maximize the performance of customer investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies and substantially include our consulting services and advanced customer services offerings. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Services Revenues : Americas $ 898 145% 145% $ 367 EMEA 297 16% 30% 255 Asia Pacific 166 5% 16% 159 Total revenues 1,361 74% 84% 781 Total Expenses (1) 1,007 65% 74% 609 Total Margin $ 354 107% 117% $ 172 Total Margin % 26% 22% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 66% 47% EMEA 22% 33% Asia Pacific 12% 20% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to revenue contributions from our Cerner acquisition, and revenue increases in each of our primary services offerings. In reported currency, Cerner contributed $529 million to our services business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In constant currency, the Americas, the EMEA and the Asia Pacific regions contributed 85%, 11% and 4%, respectively, to the revenue growth for this business in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. In constant currency, total services expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to additional operating expenses due to our acquisition of Cerner, including higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount. In constant currency, our services business total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, due to higher total revenues for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 37 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses : Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position . Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Research and development (1) $ 1,671 25% 28% $ 1,340 Stock-based compensation 422 23% 23% 344 Total expenses $ 2,093 24% 27% $ 1,684 % of Total Revenues 19% 18% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to higher employee related expenses including stock-based compensation due to increased headcount and additional operating expenses due to our acquisition of Cerner. Furthermore, an allocation of the gain from an operating asset sale in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 decreased our expenses during that period, with no comparable transaction in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. General and Administrative Expenses : General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 General and administrative (1) $ 327 31% 36% $ 249 Stock-based compensation 84 71% 71% 49 Total expenses $ 411 38% 42% $ 298 % of Total Revenues 4% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, total general and administrative expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to additional operating expenses due to our acquisition of Cerner, higher professional services expenses, and an allocation of the gain from an operating asset sale during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 that decreased our expenses during that period, with no comparable transaction in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Amortization of Intangible Assets : Substantially all of our intangible assets were acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Developed technology $ 233 83% 83% $ 127 Cloud services and license support agreements and related relationships 385 149% 148% 155 Cloud license and on-premise license agreements and related relationships 108 * * 5 Other 193 * * 16 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 919 203% 204% $ 303 * Not meaningful 38 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in recent periods, primarily from our acquisition of Cerner, partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses : Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, certain business combination adjustments, including adjustments after the measurement period has ended, and certain other operating items, net. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 17 * * $ 2 Business combination adjustments, net 5 180% 186% 3 Other, net 19 17% 20% 16 Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 41 106% 110% $ 21 * Not meaningful On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to higher transitional employee related cost related to our acquisition of Cerner. Restructuring Expenses : Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies and/or other strategic initiatives. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs, contract termination costs and certain other exit costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2022. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Restructuring expenses $ 144 276% 310% $ 38 Restructuring expenses in each of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022 primarily related to our 2022 Restructuring Plan. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2022 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. We may incur additional restructuring expenses in future periods due to the initiation of new restructuring plans or from changes in estimated costs associated with existing restructuring plans. The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2022 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued emphasis in developing, marketing, selling and delivering our cloud-based offerings. Certain of the cost savings realized pursuant to our 2022 Restructuring Plan initiatives were offset by investments in resources and geographies that better address the development, marketing, sale and delivery of our cloud based offerings including investments in the development and delivery of our second generation cloud infrastructure. Interest Expense : Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Interest expense $ 787 12% 12% $ 705 39 Table of Contents Interest expense increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to higher average borrowings during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 resulting from borrowings, net of partial repayment pursuant to a delayed draw term loan credit agreement (Bridge Credit Agreement), and a $4.4 billion term loan credit agreement (Term Loan Credit Agreement) during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by lower interest expense that resulted from $8.3 billion of scheduled repayments made during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information. Non-Operating Expenses, net : Non-operating expenses, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan), net losses related to equity investments including losses attributable to equity method investments and net other income and expenses, including net unrealized gains and losses from our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, and non-service net periodic pension income and losses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Interest income $ 38 95% 102% $ 20 Foreign currency losses, net (71 ) 105% 108% (35 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (38 ) -19% -19% (47 ) Losses from equity investments, net (86 ) 298% 291% (22 ) Other (losses) gains, net (23 ) * * 43 Total non-operating expenses, net $ (180 ) 340% 346% $ (41 ) * Not meaningful Our non-operating expenses, net increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to higher foreign currency losses, net; higher net losses associated with equity investments; and higher other expense, net, which was primarily attributable to higher unrealized investment losses associated with certain marketable equity securities that we held for employee benefit plans, and for which an equal and offsetting amount was recorded to our operating expenses during the same period. The increase in non-operating expenses, net was partially offset by higher interest income and lower noncontrolling interests in income. Provision for Income Taxes : Our effective income tax rates for each of the periods presented were the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. Refer to Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a discussion regarding the differences between the effective income tax rates as presented for the periods below and the U.S. federal statutory income tax rates that were in effect during these periods. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2022 Actual Constant 2021 Provision for income taxes $ 108 -52% -46% $ 224 Effective tax rate 6.5% 8.4% Provision for income taxes decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, primarily due to lower income before provision for income taxes due to the amortization of Cerner intangible assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and unrecognized tax benefits due to settlements with tax authorities and other events. 40 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2022 Change May 31, 2022 Working capital $ (13,815 ) * $ 12,122 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 11,220 -49% $ 21,902 * Not meaningful Working capital : The decrease in working capital as of August 31, 2022 in comparison to May 31, 2022 was primarily due to $27.8 billion net cash used for our acquisition of Cerner, $1.5 billion of repayment of senior notes assumed from our acquisition of Cerner, $1.0 billion of long-term senior notes that were reclassified to current liabilities, cash used for repurchases of our common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by cash proceeds from borrowings pursuant to the Term Loan Credit Agreement (refer to Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information), the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from net income and cash proceeds from stock option exercises. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities : Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of time deposits, marketable equity securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2022 in comparison to May 31, 2022 was primarily due to the net cash outflows of $27.8 billion for our acquisition of Cerner, $1.5 billion of repayment of senior notes assumed from our acquisition of Cerner, repurchases of our common stock, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. These cash outflows during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 were partially offset by certain cash inflows, primarily due to cash inflows generated by borrowings, net of partial repayments pursuant to the Bridge Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Credit Agreement, cash inflows from our operations and from stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 Change 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,394 19% $ 5,391 Net cash used for investing activities $ (29,436 ) * $ (781 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 12,310 * $ (11,468 ) * Not meaningful Cash flows from operating activities : Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their license support agreements. Payments from customers for these license support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new licenses, cloud services, hardware offerings and other services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are typically for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes, interest payments and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily due to certain cash favorable working capital changes, net in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 . Cash flows from investing activities : The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to our acquisitions, the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities, and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily due to the cash used for our acquisition of Cerner in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, an increase in cash used for capital expenditures and decrease in cash proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments, partially offset by a decrease in cash used for the purchases of 41 Table of Contents marketable securities and other investments, in each case during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2022 . Cash flows from financing activities : The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments, stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. Net cash provided by financing activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 compared to the net cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily due to the cash proceeds from borrowings, net of partial repayments pursuant to the Bridge Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Credit Agreement; lower stock repurchases; and higher net cash from our employee stock program, partially offset by $1.5 billion of repayment of senior notes assumed through our acquisition of Cerner, in each case during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Free cash flow : To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2022 Change 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,542 -31% $ 15,325 Capital expenditures (5,168 ) 87% (2,761 ) Free cash flow $ 5,374 -57% $ 12,564 Net income $ 5,808 $ 13,952 Free cash flow as percent of net income 93% 90% Recent Financing Activities : Credit Agreements and Related Borrowings : On June 8, 2022, we borrowed $15.7 billion under the Bridge Credit Agreement to partly finance our acquisition of Cerner. The amount is due and payable in full on March 7, 2023 unless settled earlier pursuant to the terms of the Bridge Credit Agreement. On August 16, 2022, we entered into the Term Loan Credit Agreement and borrowed $3.6 billion under the Term Loan 1 Facility and $790 million under the Term Loan 2 Facility. We used the net proceeds of such borrowings to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding under the Bridge Credit Agreement. We will begin making quarterly repayments of amounts borrowed under both Term Loan Facilities in September 2024. Any remaining unpaid principal balance under the Term 1 Loan Facility will be fully due and payable on August 16, 2027 and any remaining unpaid principal balance under the Term 2 Loan Facility will be fully due and payable on August 16, 2025, unless the termination date of one or both of the Term Loan Facilities is extended. Cerner Senior Notes and Other Borrowings : We assumed $1.6 billion of senior notes and other borrowings through our Cerner acquisition, of which $1.5 billion were paid on June 8, 2022. Commercial Paper Program : During the first quarter of fiscal 2023, our commercial paper program was increased to $6.0 billion. Our commercial paper program allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws pursuant to dealer agreements with various banks and an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas. As of August 31, 2022 and May 31, 2022, we did not have any outstanding commercial paper notes. Additional details regarding these activities are included in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. 42 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations : During the first quarter of fiscal 2023, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2022, other than the closure of our acquisition of Cerner on June 8, 2022 for which we borrowed $15.7 billion on the same day pursuant to the Bridge Credit Agreement, and borrowing $4.4 billion pursuant to the Term Loan Credit Agreement, the proceeds of which were used for partial repayment of borrowings under the Bridge Credit Agreement. Additional details are included in the discussion above and in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report . We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, cash generated from operations, and our $6.0 billion, five-year revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2019 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all stock-based awards vest and, if applicable, are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at August 31, 2022, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, all have exercise prices lower than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2022, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested, was 6.8%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.