Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview We are the worlds largest provider of enterprise software and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services that are engineered to work together in the cloud and in the data center. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud computing, including database and middleware as well as web-based applications, virtualization, clustering and large-scale systems management. We provide cloud services as well as software and hardware products to other cloud service providers, both public and private. Oracle database and middleware software, applications software and hardware systemsincluding computer server, storage and networking productsare the building blocks of our own cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers private cloud environments. Our customers can subscribe to use select Oracle software and hardware products through our cloud offerings, or purchase our software and hardware products and related services to build their own cloud or on-premise information technology (IT) environments. Our strategy is to deliver reliable and scalable products and services that are built upon industry standards and are engineered to work together or independently. We also pursue new or emerging growth opportunities in order to maintain technology leadership. Offering customers a choice in how they use our products and serviceswhile maintaining enterprise-grade reliability, security, and interoperabilityis important to our corporate strategy. We believe that internal growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plans. We continue to focus the engineering of our hardware and software products to make them work together more effectively and deliver improved computing performance, reliability and security to our customers. For example, Oracle Engineered Systems, which include our Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud and Oracle SPARC SuperCluster products, among others, combine certain of our hardware and software offerings in a way that increases computing performance relative to our competitors products, creating time savings, efficiencies and operational cost advantages for our customers. With products that are engineered to work together, our customers can reduce much of the complexity of IT and make available resources they would otherwise spend on IT operations. In addition to our introductions of new, innovative hardware and software products, we also continue to demonstrate our commitment to customer choice through ongoing enhancements to our existing products, including our Oracle E-Business Suite, Siebel, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards applications software products. We believe that an active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy as it enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. We are organized into three businessessoftware, hardware systems and serviceswhich are further divided into certain operating segments. Each of our businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. An overview of our three businesses and related operating segments follows. Software Business Our software business, which represented 75% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software business total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our software products and subscription offerings, 28 Table of Contents our software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions: We license our database and middleware, as well as our applications software, and provide access to a broad range of our software offerings through cloud software subscriptions contracts. Our software solutions are substantially built on a standards-based, integrated architecture that is designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructure. Our software products are substantially designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations for cloud or on-premise IT environments, and to support a choice of operating systems including Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products, among others. Our customers include businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We market and sell our software products and services to these customers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best fit their needs. We enable customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT environment at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. The growth in new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software offerings, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software licenses transactions are characterized by long sales cycles and the timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues. Since our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of this business segment. New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues represented 28% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our cloud software subscriptions contracts are generally one to three years in duration and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. Our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segments margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short-term. However, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segments margin has been and will continue to be affected by the fair value adjustments relating to the cloud software subscriptions obligations that we assumed in our business combinations (described further below) and by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies and technologies that we have acquired. For certain of our acquired businesses, we recorded adjustments to reduce cloud software subscriptions obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize cloud software subscriptions revenues related to cloud software subscriptions contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $5 million and $6 million for the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $12 million and $37 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying cloud software subscriptions contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the cloud software subscriptions contracts over their respective contractual periods. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts, (2) the amount of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses and (3) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. 29 Table of Contents Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 47% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Our software support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 89% and accounted for 76% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license updates and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to software support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our software support contract base. Even if new software licenses revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming contract renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software licenses transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our software support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our software support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. We recorded adjustments to reduce software support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $1 million and $4 million for the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $2 million and $12 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying software support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the software support contracts over the respective support periods, the majority of which are one year. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 14% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. Hardware Systems Products: We provide a broad selection of hardware systems and related services including servers, storage, networking, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software to support diverse IT environments, including public and private cloud computing environments. We engineer our hardware systems with virtualization and management capabilities to enable the rapid deployment and efficient management of cloud and on-premise IT infrastructures. We have also engineered our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when our hardware and software products are combined as Oracle Engineered Systems. Oracle Engineered Systems are core building blocks for Oracles data center and cloud computing products and services. Oracle Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), an on-premise cloud offering for deploying Oracles Engineered Systems to customers on a subscription basis, provides our customers with flexibility in deployment models and allows our customers to cost effectively handle peak computing workloads with capacity on demand. We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are differentiated by their reliability, security, and scalability. Our mid-size and 30 Table of Contents large servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications, for customers having more computationally intensive needs, and as platforms for building cloud computing IT environments. Our SPARC servers are also a core component of the Oracle SPARC SuperCluster, one of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We also offer enterprise x86 servers. These x86 servers are based on microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are also compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our x86 systems are also a core component of many of our Oracle Engineered Systems including Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine and the Oracle Big Data Appliance. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, flash and hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. Our networking and data center fabric products, including Oracle Virtual Networking, and Oracle InfiniBand and Ethernet technologies, are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools to help enterprise customers improve infrastructure performance, reduce cost and complexity and simplify storage and server connectivity. We also offer products and services for communications networks including network signaling, policy control and subscriber data management solutions, and session border control technology, amongst others. The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our Oracle Engineered Systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We strive to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types and a build-to-order manufacturing process in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. We continue to evolve hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new and renewed hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware systems products. Our hardware systems products revenues, cost of hardware systems products and hardware systems operating margins that we report are affected by our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware systems products, the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, certain of our acquisitions and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In addition, our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets. We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our server, storage and networking products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. Our hardware systems support revenues that we report are influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, whether customers decide to purchase hardware systems 31 Table of Contents support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale, the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and our acquisitions. Substantially all of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by certain of our acquisitions and related accounting, including fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed, and by the amortization of intangible assets. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisitions to their estimated fair values. These amounts would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $2 million for each of the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013 and $11 million and $10 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the respective support periods. Services Business Our services business is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments and offers consulting services, managed cloud services and education services. Our services business, which represented 11% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, has lower margins than our software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, personnel reductions in our customers IT departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and the growth in our software and hardware systems products revenues. Our consulting line of business is designed to help our customers more successfully architect and deploy our products. Our consulting services include business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically segmentable from the products to which they relate and are performed after the customers purchase of the products. Our services revenues as they relate to consulting services are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of our product revenues, in particular the new software licenses sales of our application products. Oracle managed cloud services provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance servicesincluding deployment, management, monitoring, patching, security and upgrade servicesfor customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. Additionally, we provide support services, both on-premise and remote, to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. We believe that our managed cloud services offerings provide our customers with greater value and choice through increased business performance, reduced risk, a predictable cost and more flexibility in terms of service in order to maximize the performance of their Oracle software and hardware products and services. Education services provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption and use of our software and hardware products and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Acquisitions An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Responsys, Inc. (Responsys) in the third quarter of fiscal 2014, Tekelec Global, Inc. (Tekelec) in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and Acme Packet, Inc. (Acme Packet) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, amongst others. We believe our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue 32 Table of Contents to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our pending and recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. During the first nine months of fiscal 2014, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2013 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2014 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2013 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily our acquisitions of Responsys in the third quarter of fiscal 2014, Tekelec in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and Acme Packet in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. 33 Table of Contents In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2014 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2013, we quantify the contributions of our acquired products (for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues, hardware systems products revenues and hardware systems support revenues. The incremental contributions of our acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as the quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, the acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we strive to renew cloud software subscriptions contracts and hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions deferred revenues, software license updates and product support deferred revenues, and hardware systems support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2013, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2014 and 2013, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.37 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 (using 1.37 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.31 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2013 (using 1.31 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013 using the May 31, 2013 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 34 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 4,953 5% 8% $ 4,698 $ 14,466 5% 6% $ 13,808 EMEA (1) 2,923 6% 4% 2,745 8,178 4% 2% 7,829 Asia Pacific (2) 1,431 -6% 2% 1,515 4,311 -6% 2% 4,596 Total revenues 9,307 4% 6% 8,958 26,955 3% 4% 26,233 Total Operating Expenses 5,740 2% 4% 5,624 17,105 3% 5% 16,549 Total Operating Margin $ 3,567 7% 9% $ 3,334 $ 9,850 2% 4% $ 9,684 Total Operating Margin % 38% 37% 37% 37% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 52% 54% 53% EMEA 31% 31% 30% 30% Asia Pacific 15% 17% 16% 17% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 6,979 5% 6% $ 6,672 $ 19,958 5% 6% $ 19,035 Hardware Systems 1,323 7% 9% 1,241 3,908 0% 1% 3,915 Services 1,005 -4% -2% 1,045 3,089 -6% -4% 3,283 Total revenues $ 9,307 4% 6% $ 8,958 $ 26,955 3% 4% $ 26,233 % Revenues by Business: Software 75% 74% 74% 73% Hardware Systems 14% 14% 15% 15% Services 11% 12% 11% 12% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) Asia Pacific includes Japan Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, our total revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 by 6 percentage points due to an increase in our software business revenues, which was attributable to growth in our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues due substantially to incremental revenues from our acquisitions, and growth in our software license updates and product support revenues; and an increase in our hardware systems business revenues attributable to growth in hardware systems products revenues and hardware systems support revenues due substantially to incremental revenues from our acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, the contributions of our software and hardware businesses revenues to our total revenues growth in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 were partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our services business. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 71%, EMEA contributed 23% and Asia Pacific contributed 6% to our total revenues growth during the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total operating expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in sales and marketing and research and development expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher sales-based variable compensation expenses due to revenues growth, and an increase in hardware systems products costs due to an increase in hardware systems products revenues. These expense increases were partially offset by constant currency expense decreases during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily in our software license updates and product support, hardware systems support and services segments due to decreased headcount, lower acquisition related and other expenses, and lower intangible assets amortization. Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our operating margin and our operating margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 as our total revenues increased at a faster rate than our total operating expenses. 35 Table of Contents First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 1 percentage point, our total revenues increased by 4 percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 due to an increase in our software business revenues due to the same reasons as noted above and an increase in our total hardware systems business revenues attributable to growth in hardware systems support revenues due substantially to incremental revenues from our acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, the contributions of our software and hardware businesses revenues to our total revenues growth in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 were partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our services business. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 76%, EMEA contributed 15% and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in our total revenues during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total operating expenses increased on a net basis during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to similar reasons as noted above; and due to a $306 million benefit relating to certain litigation and a $118 million acquisition related benefit, both of which decreased our acquisition related and other expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2013 (see below for additional information). These items that increased our expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2013 were partially offset by lower constant currency expenses during the fiscal 2014 period from our hardware systems support and services segments due to decreased headcount, lower restructuring expenses, and lower intangible assets amortization. Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our operating margin increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 due to the increase in our total revenues. Operating margin as a percentage of revenues remained flat. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other significant expense and income items: Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, (in millions) 2014 2013 2014 2013 New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions deferred revenues (1) $ 5 $ 6 $ 12 $ 37 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) 1 4 2 12 Hardware systems support deferred revenues (1) 2 2 11 10 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 560 586 1,732 1,789 Acquisition related and other (3)(5) (5 ) 32 21 (347 ) Restructuring (4) 38 42 146 318 Stock-based compensation (5) 198 172 579 536 Income tax effects (6) (251 ) (240 ) (783 ) (630 ) $ 548 $ 604 $ 1,720 $ 1,725 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud software subscriptions, software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize cloud software subscriptions revenues related to contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $5 million and $6 million for the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $12 million and $37 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $1 million and $4 million for the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $2 million and $12 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $2 million for each of the three months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013 and $11 million and $10 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 36 Table of Contents Approximately $3 million of estimated cloud software subscriptions revenues related to contracts assumed will not be recognized during each of the remainder of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015 that would have otherwise been recognized as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of the aforementioned business combination accounting rules. Approximately $1 million and $2 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by certain acquired companies as independent entities due to the application of the aforementioned business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of February 28, 2014, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2014 $ 554 Fiscal 2015 1,894 Fiscal 2016 1,315 Fiscal 2017 722 Fiscal 2018 588 Fiscal 2019 489 Thereafter 932 Total intangible assets subject to amortization 6,494 In-process research and development 64 Total intangible assets, net $ 6,558 (3) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. In the first nine months of fiscal 2013, acquisition related and other expenses included a benefit of $306 million related to certain litigation (see Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information), and a net benefit of $118 million due to a change in the fair value of contingent consideration payable in connection with an acquisition (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2013 for additional information). (4) The significant majority of restructuring expenses during the periods presented for the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013 related to employee severance and facility exit costs in connection with our Fiscal 2013 Oracle Restructuring Plan (the 2013 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. (5) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sales and marketing $ 42 $ 32 $ 123 $ 112 Software license updates and product support 6 5 16 15 Hardware systems products 1 1 4 2 Hardware systems support 1 1 4 3 Services 7 7 20 24 Research and development 99 86 285 258 General and administrative 42 40 127 122 Subtotal 198 172 579 536 Acquisition related and other 8 4 30 Total stock-based compensation $ 198 $ 180 $ 583 $ 566 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (6) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and the first nine months of fiscal 2014 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in effective tax rates of 23.1% and 22.3%, respectively, instead of 21.0% and 19.8%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Income tax effects for third quarter of fiscal 2013 were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 37 Table of Contents 21.0%, instead of 19.0%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effect of amortization of intangible assets, and the disproportionate rate impact of discrete items for the quarter. Income tax effects for the first nine months of fiscal 2013 were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 22.6%, instead of 21.5%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effect of amortization of intangible assets. Software Business Our software business consists of our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment and software license updates and product support segment. New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions: New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware and our applications software products. Cloud software subscriptions revenues represent fees earned from granting customers access to a broad range of our software offerings on a subscription basis in a secure, standards-based cloud computing environment that includes access, hosting, infrastructure management, the use of software updates, and support. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Expenses associated with our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues are included in sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software offerings, marketing program costs, the cost of providing cloud software subscriptions services and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 New Software Licenses and Cloud Software Subscriptions Revenues: Americas $ 1,287 7% 9% $ 1,205 $ 3,507 7% 9% $ 3,271 EMEA 727 5% 3% 690 1,789 3% 1% 1,734 Asia Pacific 401 -8% -2% 437 1,151 -11% -3% 1,290 Total revenues 2,415 4% 6% 2,332 6,447 2% 4% 6,295 Expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 1,648 6% 8% 1,548 4,757 10% 11% 4,332 Stock-based compensation 41 34% 34% 31 118 9% 9% 109 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 240 -4% -4% 250 722 -2% -2% 740 Total expenses 1,929 5% 7% 1,829 5,597 8% 9% 5,181 Total Margin $ 486 -3% 0% $ 503 $ 850 -24% -19% $ 1,114 Total Margin % 20% 22% 13% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 52% 54% 52% EMEA 30% 29% 28% 28% Asia Pacific 17% 19% 18% 20% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues increased by 6% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 due to incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions and growth in revenues from our database and middleware products. In constant currency, growth in the Americas and EMEA regions was partially offset by a decline in revenues in the Asia Pacific region. In reported currency, our new software licenses revenues were $2.1 billion in each of the third quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, and our cloud software subscriptions revenues were $287 million and $231 million in the third quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. In constant currency, our new software license revenues increased by 3% during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 due to growth in revenues from our database and middleware products and incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions, and our cloud software subscriptions revenues increased by 25% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 due to incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions. 38 Table of Contents In reported currency, our recent acquisitions contributed $84 million of growth to our total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2014. In constant currency, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions increased over the trailing 4-quarters by 3% primarily due to revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed cloud software subscriptions obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, cloud software subscriptions revenues in the amounts of $5 million and $6 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the third quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent underlying cloud software subscriptions contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the cloud software subscriptions contracts over the respective contractual periods. In reported currency, new software licenses revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater increased by 16% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and represented 25% of our total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 in comparison to 22% in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to higher employee related expenses from increased headcount and higher variable compensation expenses due to revenues growth, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions margin was flat. Margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 as our total expenses associated with this segment increased at a faster rate than our total revenues. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues increased by 4 percentage points in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to reasons noted above. In constant currency, growth in the Americas and EMEA regions was partially offset by a decline in revenues in the Asia Pacific region. In reported currency, our new software licenses revenues were $5.6 billion in each of the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013 and our cloud software subscriptions revenues were $800 million and $653 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. In constant currency, our new software licenses revenues and cloud software subscriptions revenues increased by 2% and 24%, respectively, in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to reasons noted above. In reported currency, cloud software subscriptions revenues in the amounts of $12 million and $37 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively, due to business combination accounting rules. In reported currency, our recent acquisitions contributed $227 million of growth to our total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. In reported currency, new software licenses revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater increased by 7% in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and represented 25% of our total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 in comparison to 24% in the first nine months of fiscal 2013. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 1 percentage point, total new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions expenses increased primarily due to the same reasons as noted above. Excluding the currency fluctuations, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 as our total operating expenses increased at a faster rate than our total revenues for this segment. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related 39 Table of Contents expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 2,470 5% 6% $ 2,362 $ 7,336 6% 7% $ 6,919 EMEA 1,493 9% 7% 1,365 4,364 10% 7% 3,977 Asia Pacific 601 -2% 7% 613 1,811 -2% 8% 1,844 Total revenues 4,564 5% 7% 4,340 13,511 6% 7% 12,740 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 280 -7% -4% 301 844 0% 2% 845 Stock-based compensation 6 8% 8% 5 16 9% 9% 15 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 198 -5% -5% 207 606 -4% -4% 629 Total expenses 484 -6% -4% 513 1,466 -2% 0% 1,489 Total Margin $ 4,080 7% 8% $ 3,827 $ 12,045 7% 8% $ 11,251 Total Margin % 89% 88% 89% 88% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 54% 55% 54% EMEA 33% 32% 32% 31% Asia Pacific 13% 14% 13% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, software license updates and product support revenues increased by 7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 as a result of new software licenses sold with substantially all customers electing to purchase software support contracts during the trailing 4-quarter period, and the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 32% and Asia Pacific contributed 15% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2014. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed software support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts in the amounts of $1 million and $4 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the third quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total software license updates and product support expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 decreased due to a decrease in employee related costs attributable to a decrease in headcount, a decrease in certain non-income based taxes, and a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 as our total revenues for this segment increased while our total expenses decreased. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 1 percentage point, software license updates and product support revenues increased by 7% in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to the same reasons as noted above. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 54%, EMEA contributed 30% 40 Table of Contents and Asia Pacific contributed 16% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to software support contracts in the amounts of $2 million and $12 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 were flat. Margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 as our total revenues for this segment increased while our total expenses were flat. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business consists of our hardware systems products segment and hardware systems support segment. Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server, storage and networking products, including sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Hardware Systems Products Revenues: Americas $ 348 13% 16% $ 307 $ 1,064 1% 2% $ 1,056 EMEA 218 8% 8% 201 579 -6% -7% 615 Asia Pacific 159 -2% 2% 163 465 -10% -5% 514 Total revenues 725 8% 10% 671 2,108 -3% -2% 2,185 Expenses: Hardware systems products (1) 378 13% 15% 336 1,074 -1% 0% 1,085 Sales and marketing (1) 238 7% 8% 222 721 7% 8% 676 Stock-based compensation 2 7% 7% 2 9 55% 55% 5 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 60 -21% -21% 76 217 -10% -10% 240 Total expenses 678 7% 8% 636 2,021 1% 2% 2,006 Total Margin $ 47 34% 46% $ 35 $ 87 -51% -48% $ 179 Total Margin % 7% 5% 4% 8% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 48% 46% 51% 48% EMEA 30% 30% 27% 28% Asia Pacific 22% 24% 22% 24% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations 41 Table of Contents Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, hardware systems products revenues increased by 10 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to $46 million of incremental revenues from our recently acquired companies and increases in hardware revenues attributable to our Oracle Engineered Systems. These hardware revenues increases were partially offset by reductions in the sales volumes of certain of our legacy product lines, including lower margin products. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 72%, EMEA contributed 24% and Asia Pacific contributed 4% to our total hardware systems products revenues growth during the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products operating expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in hardware systems products costs associated with increased revenues and an increase in employee related expenses due primarily to increased sales and marketing headcount. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 as the total revenues for this segment increased at a faster pace than the total expenses. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products revenues decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to reductions in the sales volumes of certain of our legacy product lines, including lower margin products. These revenues decreases were partially offset by increases in hardware revenues due to similar reasons as noted above, including revenues contributions from our recent acquisitions, which contributed $148 million of incremental revenues during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. In constant currency, total hardware systems products operating expenses increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses due primarily to an increase in sales and marketing headcount, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to the decrease in our hardware revenues and an increase in the segments operating expenses as noted above. Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our server, storage and networking products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. 42 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Hardware Systems Support Revenues: Americas $ 307 14% 16% $ 270 $ 926 13% 14% $ 821 EMEA 185 -2% -4% 189 554 -3% -4% 568 Asia Pacific 106 -5% 4% 111 320 -6% 2% 341 Total revenues 598 5% 7% 570 1,800 4% 6% 1,730 Expenses: Hardware systems support (1) 206 -6% -4% 218 626 -6% -5% 667 Stock-based compensation 1 24% 24% 1 4 32% 32% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 58 20% 20% 49 174 7% 7% 162 Total expenses 265 -1% 0% 268 804 -3% -2% 832 Total Margin $ 333 10% 13% $ 302 $ 996 11% 13% $ 898 Total Margin % 56% 53% 55% 52% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 48% 51% 47% EMEA 31% 33% 31% 33% Asia Pacific 18% 19% 18% 20% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the impact of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, hardware systems support revenues increased by 7 and 6 percentage points in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2014, respectively, primarily due to incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions of $45 million and $114 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2014, respectively. These hardware support revenues increases were partially offset by certain hardware support revenues decreases that were generally caused by the reductions in sales volumes of certain of our legacy hardware systems product lines for which we offer hardware systems support. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts in the amounts of $2 million that would have been otherwise reported by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in each of the third quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, and $11 million and $10 million were not recognized in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. To the extent these underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of these contracts over the future support periods. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems support expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 were flat as decreases in employee related costs attributable to decreased headcount and reduced services delivery costs due to operational initiatives were offset by an increase in amortization of intangible assets related to our recent acquisitions. During the first nine months of fiscal 2014, constant currency hardware systems support expenses decreased primarily due to a reduction in employee related expenses attributable to decreased headcount and reduced service delivery costs due to operational initiatives, partially offset by an increase in amortization of intangible assets. In constant currency, total hardware systems support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased in the fiscal 2014 periods presented as our total revenues for this segment increased while our total expenses for this segment were flat to down. 43 Table of Contents Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, managed cloud services and education services. Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. Managed cloud services revenues are earned by providing comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance servicesincluding deployment, management, monitoring, patching, security and upgrade servicesfor customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. Additionally, we provide support services, both on-premise and remote, to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based, internet-based and custom training in the use of our software and hardware products. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Services Revenues: Americas $ 541 -2% 0% $ 554 $ 1,633 -6% -5% $ 1,741 EMEA 300 0% -2% 300 892 -5% -7% 935 Asia Pacific 164 -14% -6% 191 564 -7% 2% 607 Total revenues 1,005 -4% -2% 1,045 3,089 -6% -4% 3,283 Expenses: Services (1) 797 -6% -4% 847 2,441 -8% -6% 2,644 Stock-based compensation 7 -6% -6% 7 20 -13% -13% 24 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 4 3% 3% 4 13 -30% -30% 18 Total expenses 808 -6% -4% 858 2,474 -8% -6% 2,686 Total Margin $ 197 5% 6% $ 187 $ 615 3% 4% $ 597 Total Margin % 20% 18% 20% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 53% 53% 53% EMEA 30% 29% 29% 29% Asia Pacific 16% 18% 18% 18% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 due to revenue decreases in our consulting services segment, partially offset by revenue increases in our managed cloud services and education services segments. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services expenses decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to expense decreases in our consulting services segment due to decreased headcount, and a decrease in certain other operating expenses, net. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 due to our expense reductions for this business. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 due to revenue decreases in all of our services segments. The largest services revenues decrease was to our consulting segments revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our total services expenses decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to similar reasons noted above and lower intangible asset amortization. 44 Table of Contents In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 due to our expense reductions for this business. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Research and development (1) $ 1,193 8% 10% $ 1,100 $ 3,518 6% 7% $ 3,328 Stock-based compensation 99 16% 16% 86 285 10% 10% 258 Total expenses $ 1,292 9% 10% $ 1,186 $ 3,803 6% 7% $ 3,586 % of Total Revenues 14% 13% 14% 14% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2014 periods presented primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses from increased headcount. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 General and administrative (1) $ 209 -5% -3% $ 220 $ 646 -4% -3% $ 676 Stock-based compensation 42 5% 5% 40 127 3% 3% 122 Total expenses $ 251 -3% -2% $ 260 $ 773 -3% -2% $ 798 % of Total Revenues 3% 3% 3% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased during the fiscal 2014 periods presented due primarily to reductions in professional fees and certain other operating expenses, net, partially offset by slightly higher salaries and benefits expenses due to an increase in headcount. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets are acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. For additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 141 -3% -3% $ 145 $ 430 -2% -2% $ 437 Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships 36 20% 20% 30 107 19% 19% 90 Developed technology 166 -18% -18% 203 536 -14% -14% 626 Core technology 79 -4% -4% 82 242 -2% -2% 246 Customer relationships and contract backlog 82 1% 1% 81 261 0% 0% 262 Cloud software subscriptions and related relationships 38 31% 31% 29 103 27% 27% 81 Trademarks 18 13% 13% 16 53 13% 13% 47 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 560 -4% -4% $ 586 $ 1,732 -3% -3% $ 1,789 45 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the fiscal 2014 periods presented as certain of our intangible assets pertaining to our legacy acquisitions of BEA Systems, Inc. and Sun Microsystems, Inc. and certain other companies became fully amortized. These decreases were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 7 3% 3% $ 7 $ 17 -27% -27% $ 24 Stock-based compensation -97% -97% 8 4 -88% -88% 30 Professional fees and other, net 2 -74% -74% 7 15 105% 105% (282 ) Business combination adjustments, net (14 ) -239% -234% 10 (15 ) 87% 88% (119 ) Total acquisition related and other expenses $ (5 ) -117% -115% $ 32 $ 21 106% 106% $ (347 ) Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: On a constant currency basis, the decrease in acquisition related and other expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to certain benefits, net, that we recorded during this period that related to certain business combination adjustments. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: On a constant currency basis, the increase in our acquisition related and other expenses in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 was primarily due to a $306 million benefit that we recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 to professional fees and other, net related to certain litigation that decreased our expenses during that period (see Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information), and the change in fair value of contingent consideration payable in connection with an acquisition, which resulted in a net benefit of $118 million that we recorded during the first nine months of fiscal 2013 (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2013 for additional information). Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses result from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Restructuring expenses $ 38 -9% -9% $ 42 $ 146 -54% -55% $ 318 Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2014 and 2013 periods presented primarily related to our 2013 Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. We amended the 2013 Restructuring Plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to reflect additional actions that we expect to take to improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2013 Restructuring Plan are $705 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as 46 Table of Contents they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2013 Restructuring Plan were approximately $246 million as of February 28, 2014. The majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2015. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Interest expense $ 228 11% 11% $ 205 $ 674 15% 15% $ 588 Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2014 periods presented primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $3.0 billion and 2.0 billion of senior notes in July 2013 and our issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in October 2012, partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $1.25 billion of senior notes in April 2013 (see Recent Financing Activities below and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding our fiscal 2014 borrowings). Non-Operating Expense, net: Non-operating expense, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Interest income $ 67 7% 16% $ 62 $ 189 5% 12% $ 180 Foreign currency losses, net (148 ) 70% 67% (87 ) (226 ) 51% 46% (150 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (23 ) -23% -21% (29 ) (75 ) -20% -19% (93 ) Other income, net 14 -13% -13% 15 52 33% 33% 39 Total non-operating expense, net $ (90 ) 132% 113% $ (39 ) $ (60 ) 151% 64% $ (24 ) On a constant currency basis, our non-operating expense, net increased during the fiscal 2014 periods presented primarily due to an increase in foreign currency losses, net. Included in our non-operating expense, net for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2014 is a foreign currency remeasurement loss of $111 million. This loss is related to the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiary. The Venezuelan economy has been determined to be highly inflationary in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 830, Foreign Currency Matters . In our third quarter of fiscal 2014, the Venezuelan government issued a new exchange agreement that states that certain foreign currency transactions, including the payment of royalties and the use of patents and technology importation agreements, which previously were subject to Venezuelas official Bolivar Fuerte (VEF) to U.S. Dollar exchange rate (the Official Rate), are subject to conversion at the rate established at the Venezuelan governments most recent auction-based exchange rate program, the Complementary System for Foreign Currency Administration (SICAD) rate. This SICAD rate is lower than Venezuelas Official Rate, resulting in the remeasurement loss noted above. During the three and nine months ended February 28, 2013, we also incurred a foreign currency remeasurement loss of $64 million related to our Venezuelan subsidiary due to the devaluation of the VEF official exchange rate by the Venezuelan government. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international and include countries such as Venezuela, which is experiencing downward market pressures that are not believed to be fully reflected in the various VEF 47 Table of Contents to U.S. Dollar exchange rates referenced above, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility and incur additional remeasurement losses in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. For example, the Venezuelan government enacted a new law effective February 19, 2014 that authorizes additional methods of exchanging VEF at rates other than the Official Rate or the SICAD rate. The regulations necessary to implement the new law are still pending and it is unclear as to whether or how the new law may impact the VEF to U.S. Dollar exchange rates. If the VEF is further devalued from its level as of February 28, 2014 by orders of magnitude of 50% to 90%, we would expect to incur additional foreign currency remeasurement losses of approximately $65 million to $120 million. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2014 Actual Constant 2013 2014 Actual Constant 2013 Provision for income taxes $ 684 17% 19% $ 586 $ 1,807 -8% -5% $ 1,953 Effective tax rate 21.0% 19.0% 19.8% 21.5% Fiscal Third Quarter 2014 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2013: Provision for income taxes in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 increased, relative to the provision for income taxes in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, due to higher taxable income during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and the retroactive extension of the U.S. research and development credit during the fiscal 2013 period, which reduced our income taxes in that period. First Nine Months Fiscal 2014 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2013: Provision for income taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2014 decreased, relative to the provision for income taxes for the first nine months of fiscal 2013, due to a tax favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of our earnings and the effects of acquisition related settlements with tax authorities during the fiscal 2014 period. Our provision for income taxes during the first nine months of fiscal 2013 was affected by the retroactive extension of the U.S. research and development credit, which reduced our income taxes in that period. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) February 28, 2014 Change May 31, 2013 Working capital $ 31,312 9% $ 28,820 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 37,225 16% $ 32,216 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of February 28, 2014 in comparison to May 31, 2013 was primarily due to our issuances of 2.0 billion and $3.0 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2013, the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first nine months of fiscal 2014, and, to a lesser extent, cash proceeds from stock option exercises. These working capital increases were partially offset by the reclassification of $1.5 billion of senior notes due July 2014 from long-term to current, cash used for repurchases of our common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders, and cash used for acquisitions, all of which occurred during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at 48 Table of Contents February 28, 2014 in comparison to May 31, 2013 was due to an increase in cash generated from our operating activities, our issuance of 2.0 billion and $3.0 billion of senior notes in July 2013, and to a lesser extent, cash proceeds from stock option exercises. These increases were partially offset by $7.8 billion of repurchases of our common stock, $3.1 billion of net cash paid for acquisitions and $1.6 billion used for the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders during the first nine months of fiscal 2014. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $32.9 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of February 28, 2014, a significant portion of which was generated from the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries that we consider as indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations outside the United States. These undistributed earnings that are considered as indefinitely reinvested overseas would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first nine months of fiscal 2014, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased as of February 28, 2014 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from our May 31, 2013 balance sheet date. Days sales outstanding, which was calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 39 days at February 28, 2014 compared with 50 days at May 31, 2013. The days sales outstanding calculation excluded the impact of revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud software subscriptions obligations, software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value. Our decline in days sales outstanding was primarily due to strong collections, in our first nine months of fiscal 2014, and seasonality resulting in a large volume of software license and software support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2013. Nine Months Ended February 28, (Dollars in millions) 2014 Change 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,465 8% $ 9,660 Net cash used for investing activities $ (5,932 ) 59% $ (3,727 ) Net cash used for financing activities $ (2,262 ) -54% $ (4,874 ) Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software licenses sales and sales of hardware systems support arrangements, and to a lesser extent, sales of services, hardware systems products, and cloud software subscriptions. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware systems products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 primarily due to the following, which in each case compares the favorable cash impacts for the first nine months of fiscal 2014 to the first nine months of fiscal 2013: the cash favorable impacts of increased net income adjusted for amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and depreciation; additional cash inflows associated with arrangements for which revenues were initially deferred at the outset of the arrangements, primarily software support arrangements; and the impact of a reduction of contingent consideration payable in connection with an acquisition (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2013 for additional information) and the impact of a $306 million non-current receivable related to certain litigation (see Note 14 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information), both of which were recognized in the first nine months of fiscal 2013. 49 Table of Contents Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 due to an increase in net cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities) and an increase in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, in each case compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2013. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash used for financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 decreased in comparison to the first nine months of fiscal 2013 primarily due to the repayment of $1.7 billion of short-term borrowings pursuant to certain expired revolving credit facilities during the first nine months of fiscal 2013 (no repayments during the first nine months of fiscal 2014), a net increase in borrowings during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 (we issued 2.0 billion and $3.0 billion of senior notes during the first nine months of fiscal 2014 in comparison to $5.0 billion of senior notes issued during the first nine months of fiscal 2013), lower stock repurchase activity and higher proceeds from stock option exercises. These fiscal 2014 cash favorable variances were partially offset by an increase in payments of cash dividends to stockholders in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 in comparison to the first nine months of fiscal 2013. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended February 28, (Dollars in millions) 2014 Change 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,029 10% $ 13,717 Capital expenditures (1) (609 ) -11% (684 ) Free cash flow $ 14,420 11% $ 13,033 Net income $ 11,115 $ 10,571 Free cash flow as percent of net income 130% 123% (1) Derived from capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities as per our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with GAAP. Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware systems products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. We financed $941 million and $829 million, respectively, or approximately 15% and 13%, respectively, of our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013, and $106 million and $94 million, respectively, or approximately 5% and 4%, respectively, of our hardware systems products revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 and 2013. Recent Financing Activities: Senior Notes : In July 2013, we issued 2.0 billion ($2.7 billion as of February 28, 2014) of fixed rate senior notes comprised of 1.25 billion of 2.25% notes due January 2021 (2021 Notes) and 750 million of 3.125% 50 Table of Contents notes due July 2025 (2025 Notes, and together with the 2021 Notes, the Euro Notes). The Euro Notes are registered and trade on the New York Stock Exchange. We are accounting for the 2025 Notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the Euro as their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). In July 2013, we also issued $3.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $500 million of floating rate notes due January 2019 (2019 Floating Rate Notes), $1.5 billion of 2.375% notes due January 2019 (2019 Notes) and $1.0 billion of 3.625% notes due July 2023 (2023 Notes, and together with the Floating Rate Notes and 2019 Notes, the U.S. Dollar Notes). We issued the Euro Notes and the U.S. Dollar Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock and future acquisitions. Additional details regarding the Euro Notes, the U.S. Dollar Notes, and the related hedge accounting are included in Note 6 and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Interest Rate Swap Agreements : In July 2013, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our 2019 Notes so that the interest payable on these notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. As of February 28, 2014, our 2019 Notes had an effective interest rate of 0.90% after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Note 6 and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Cross Currency Swap Agreements : In July 2013, in connection with the issuance of the 2021 Notes, we entered into certain cross-currency swap agreements to manage the related foreign currency exchange risk by effectively converting the fixed-rate, Euro denominated 2021 Notes, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to fixed-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The economic effect of the swap agreements was to eliminate the uncertainty of the cash flows in U.S. Dollars associated with the 2021 Notes by fixing the principal amount of the 2021 Notes at $1.6 billion with an annual interest rate of 3.53%. We have designated these cross-currency swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for these as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related cross-currency swap agreements are included in Note 6 and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Common Stock Repurchases : Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On June 20, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion. Approximately $6.3 billion remained available for stock repurchases as of February 28, 2014 pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations, our stock price and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Contractual Obligations: During the first nine months of fiscal 2014, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2013 other than those items noted under Recent Financing ActivitiesSenior Notes; Interest Rate Swap Agreements; andCross Currency Swap Agreements above. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock 51 Table of Contents or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees and any restricted stock-based awards outstanding were assumed as a result of our acquisitions. We recognize that stock options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2010 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.8% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new stock options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of stock options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all stock options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Of the outstanding stock options at February 28, 2014, which generally have a 10-year exercise period, approximately 0.6% have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At February 28, 2014, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock options and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 10.9%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.