Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview We are the worlds largest enterprise software company and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software; applications software; and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products. Our products are built on industry standards and are engineered to work together or independently within existing customer information technology (IT) environments. We offer customers secure, reliable, and scalable integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve business efficiencies and more easily adapt to an organizations unique needs, at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. We are organized into three businessessoftware, hardware systems and serviceswhich are further divided into certain operating segments. We believe our internal growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plans. An important element of our continued innovation and product strategy is to focus the engineering of our hardware and software products to make them work together more effectively and deliver improved computing performance, reliability and security to our customers. Our Oracle Exadata Database Machine and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud products exemplify this strategy and are currently two of our most important products. Both products combine certain of our hardware and software offerings to provide an engineered system that increases computing performance relative to our competitors products, creating time savings and operational cost advantages for our customers. Our businesses provide the products and services necessary to run a wide range of customer IT environments, including cloud computing environments. Cloud computing environments provide on demand access to a shared pool of computing resources in a self-service, dynamically scalable manner, delivering advantages in speed and efficiency. Cloud computing has evolved from technologies and services that Oracle has provided for many years, including clustering, server virtualization, Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) shared services and large-scale management automation. Our cloud computing strategy is broad and comprehensive to provide customers with choice and a pragmatic roadmap for implementing or maintaining private clouds, which are generally exclusive to a single organization, public clouds, which are generally shared by multiple organizations and managed by a third party service provider, or integration between clouds. We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Each of our businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our three businesses and related operating segments follows. 24 Table of Contents Software Business Our software business, which represented 68% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software business total revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our software products and software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 26% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our new software license segments margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short-term. However, our new software license segments margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies and technologies that we have acquired. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 42% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Our software support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 86% and accounted for 70% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to software support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. 25 Table of Contents We recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $13 million and $25 million for the three months ended August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 19% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. Hardware Systems Products: Our hardware systems products consist primarily of computer server and storage product offerings and hardware-related software, including our Oracle Solaris operating system. Our hardware systems component products are designed to be open, or to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. We have also engineered our hardware systems products to create performance and operational cost advantages for customers when our hardware and software products are combined as engineered systems, as with Oracle Exadata and Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud. We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their reliability, security, scalability and customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized systems). Our midsize and large servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments at any scale. We also offer a wide range of x86 servers. These x86 servers are primarily based on microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are also compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers mission critical data assets and consist of tape, disk, hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software and storage management software, and networking for mainframe and open systems environments. The majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We are continuing to focus on reducing costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types and a build-to-order manufacturing process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. In addition, we are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of new hardware products. Our hardware systems products revenues, cost of hardware systems products and operating margins that we report are affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary 26 Table of Contents constraints, the competitive position of our hardware systems products, and our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets. We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large transactions could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. Hardware Systems Support: Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our server and storage products, such as Oracle Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. The growth of our hardware systems support revenues is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, and the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts. All of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed and by the amortization of intangible assets. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisitions to their estimated fair values. These amounts would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $11 million and $61 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the support periods. Services Business Our services business is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments and offers consulting services, certain of our Oracle Cloud Services offerings, Advanced Customer Services and education services. Our services business, which represented 13% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, has significantly lower margins than our software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our customers IT departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and the growth in our software and hardware systems products revenues. Our consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial product implementation and integration, and ongoing product enhancements and upgrades. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically segmentable from the products with which they relate and are performed after the customers purchase of the products. Our services revenues as they relate to consulting services are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of our product revenues, in particular the new software license sales of our application products. To the extent we are able to grow our products revenues, in particular our software application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to eventually grow our consulting revenues. Oracle Cloud Services are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide support services, both onsite and remote, to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. We believe that these offerings provide our customers with increased business performance, reduced risk, a predictable cost and more flexibility and choice in terms of service in order to maximize the performance of their Oracle software and hardware products and services. 27 Table of Contents Education services provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission to further the adoption and usage of our software and hardware products by our customers and create opportunities to grow our products revenues. Acquisitions An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. We believe our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our pending and recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily Art Technology Group, Inc. (ATG) in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and Phase Forward Incorporated (Phase Forward) during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products (for acquisitions that were completed since the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2011) to the growth in new software license revenues and to the growth in software license updates and product support revenues. The incremental contributions of our acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we strive to renew hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as software license updates and product support deferred revenues and hardware systems support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and hardware systems products segments) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2011, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2011 and August 31, 2010, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.45 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 (using 1.45 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.27 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (using 1.27 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the results for the first 29 Table of Contents quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011 using the May 31, 2011 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 4,226 8% 7% $ 3,904 EMEA (1) 2,704 14% 2% 2,381 Asia Pacific (2) 1,444 19% 7% 1,217 Total revenues 8,374 12% 5% 7,502 Total Operating Expenses 5,691 2% -2% 5,585 Total Operating Margin $ 2,683 40% 26% $ 1,917 Total Operating Margin % 32% 26% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 52% EMEA 32% 32% Asia Pacific 17% 16% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 5,520 17% 11% $ 4,736 Hardware Systems 1,674 -1% -8% 1,698 Services 1,180 10% 5% 1,068 Total revenues $ 8,374 12% 5% $ 7,502 % Revenues by Business: Software 66% 63% Hardware Systems 20% 23% Services 14% 14% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) Asia Pacific includes Japan Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 due to an increase in our software business revenues resulting from growth in our new software license revenues and software license updates and product support revenues and due to an increase in our services business revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 64%, EMEA contributed 14% and Asia Pacific contributed 22% to our total revenues growth. Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, the decrease in total operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was primarily due to a reduction of hardware systems products costs primarily associated with the related decrease in revenues, a decrease in research and development expenses and a decrease in acquisition related and other expenses. These constant currency operating expense decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales and marketing expenses. On a constant currency basis, our operating margin and our operating margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to the growth in our software business operating margin and certain reductions in our operating expenses. 30 Table of Contents Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other significant expense items: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) $ 13 $ 25 Hardware systems support deferred revenues (1) 11 61 Amortization of intangible assets (2 ) 592 603 Acquisition related and other (3)(5 ) 19 83 Restructuring (4 ) 101 129 Stock-based compensation (5 ) 147 129 Income tax effects (6 ) (258 ) (253 ) $ 625 $ 777 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $13 million and $25 million for the three months ended August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $11 million and $61 million for the three months ended August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately $19 million, $9 million and $2 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2012, fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of these business combination accounting rules. In addition, approximately $19 million and $11 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period. (2 ) Represents the amortization of intangible assets substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2011, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2012 $ 1,737 Fiscal 2013 1,967 Fiscal 2014 1,619 Fiscal 2015 1,220 Fiscal 2016 717 Fiscal 2017 176 Thereafter 176 Total intangible assets subject to amortization 7,612 In-process research and development 50 Total intangible assets, net $ 7,662 (3 ) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and changes in fair value of contingent consideration payable (See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report), and certain other operating expenses, net. (4 ) The significant majority of restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 relate to employee severance, facility exit costs and contract termination costs in connection with our Sun Restructuring Plan. Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. 31 Table of Contents (5 ) Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2011 2010 Sales and marketing $ 26 $ 23 Software license updates and product support 4 5 Hardware systems products 1 1 Hardware systems support 1 1 Services 4 4 Research and development 71 59 General and administrative 40 36 Subtotal 147 129 Acquisition related and other 1 1 Total stock-based compensation $ 148 $ 130 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (6 ) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 26.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 instead of 25.6%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations, primarily due to income tax effects related to our acquired tax exposures and the differences in jurisdictional tax rates and the related tax benefits attributable to our restructuring expenses. The income tax effects presented for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were calculated based upon a tax rate of 24.7%, which was consistent with our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations. Software Business Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment. 32 Table of Contents New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 New Software License Revenues: Americas $ 727 10% 9% $ 658 EMEA 440 25% 15% 352 Asia Pacific 331 20% 9% 276 Total revenues 1,498 17% 11% 1,286 Expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 1,326 24% 18% 1,065 Stock-based compensation 26 17% 17% 22 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 187 -8% -8% 204 Total expenses 1,539 19% 14% 1,291 Total Margin $ (41 ) -621% -1,013% $ (5 ) Total Margin % -3% 0% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 49% 51% EMEA 29% 27% Asia Pacific 22% 22% Revenues by Product: Database and middleware $ 1,070 14% 8% $ 937 Applications 428 23% 19% 349 Total new software license revenues $ 1,498 17% 11% $ 1,286 % Revenues by Product: Database and middleware 71% 73% Applications 29% 27% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, total new software license revenues increased by 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 due to growth across all major regions and product types and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 43%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific contributed 19% to our new software license revenues growth during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. In constant currency, database and middleware revenues and applications revenues increased by 8% and 19%, respectively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, and 15% and 21%, respectively, over the trailing 4-quarters, primarily due to improved customer demand for our products, our sales forces execution and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, our recent acquisitions contributed $55 million to the growth in our applications revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. 33 Table of Contents Effective with this Quarterly Report and in our subsequent filings, we have elected to disclose the impacts of transactions of $3 million or greater to our new software license revenues, rather than our historical threshold of $0.5 million or greater, in order to provide what we believe is more meaningful information regarding our results of operations. In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater increased by 45% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and represented 21% of our new software license revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 in comparison to 17% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. As a transitional disclosure to be provided only as a part of this Quarterly Report, our new software license revenues earned from transactions of $0.5 million or greater increased by 44% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and represented 49% of our new software license revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 in comparison to 40% in our first quarter of fiscal 2011. Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, total new software license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher employee related expenses from increased headcount and an increase in certain legal costs. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to the aforementioned increase in our expenses. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 2,124 13% 11% $ 1,884 EMEA 1,320 19% 8% 1,105 Asia Pacific 578 25% 13% 461 Total revenues 4,022 17% 10% 3,450 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 293 -3% -6% 303 Stock-based compensation 4 -22% -22% 5 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 211 2% 2% 206 Total expenses 508 -1% -3% 514 Total Margin $ 3,514 20% 13% $ 2,936 Total Margin % 87% 85% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 55% EMEA 33% 32% Asia Pacific 14% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations 34 Table of Contents Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, software license updates and product support revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as a result of new software licenses sold (with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts) during the trailing 4-quarter period, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal quarter and incremental revenues from recent acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 58%, EMEA contributed 25% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 included incremental revenues of $28 million from our recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $13 million and $25 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration. Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased primarily as a result of a reduction in bad debt expenses. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues increased while our expenses decreased. Hardware Systems Business Our hardware systems business consists of our hardware systems products segment and hardware systems support segment. 35 Table of Contents Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server and storage products. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consist of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Hardware Systems Products Revenues: Americas $ 475 -12% -13% $ 543 EMEA 344 2% -11% 338 Asia Pacific 210 6% -5% 198 Total revenues 1,029 -5% -11% 1,079 Expenses: Hardware systems products (1) 471 -15% -19% 556 Sales and marketing (1) 278 14% 7% 245 Stock-based compensation 1 -59% -59% 2 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 105 3% 3% 101 Total expenses 855 -5% -9% 904 Total Margin $ 174 0% -18% $ 175 Total Margin % 17% 16% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 46% 51% EMEA 33% 31% Asia Pacific 21% 18% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, hardware systems products revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to a reduction in the volume of lower margin transactions. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in hardware revenues attributable to our engineered systems. Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, total hardware systems products operating expenses declined due to a reduction in hardware systems products costs associated with lower margin transactions, partially offset by an increase in employee related expenses due to increased headcount. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems products margin decreased slightly, while margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to a decrease in hardware systems products costs. 36 Table of Contents Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Hardware Systems Support Revenues: Americas $ 298 18% 16% $ 252 EMEA 236 -9% -18% 259 Asia Pacific 111 2% -9% 108 Total revenues 645 4% -3% 619 Expenses: Hardware systems support (1) 282 -6% -11% 300 Stock-based compensation 1 15% 15% 1 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 76 1% 1% 74 Total expenses 359 -4% -9% 375 Total Margin $ 286 17% 5% $ 244 Total Margin % 44% 39% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 46% 41% EMEA 37% 42% Asia Pacific 17% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the impact of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, hardware systems support revenues decreased modestly in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to a decrease in EMEA revenues. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts in the amount of $11 million and $61 million that would have been otherwise reported by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the future support periods. Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, total hardware systems support expenses decreased due to the reduction of service delivery costs resulting from our integration initiatives associated with our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), and were partially offset by increased employee related expenses due to increased headcount. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware systems support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased primarily as a result of our expense reductions. 37 Table of Contents Services Our services business consists of consulting, certain of our Oracle Cloud Services offerings, Advanced Customer Services and education services. Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. Oracle Cloud Services managed services are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide support services, both on-site and remote, to customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products. The cost of providing our services is primarily personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Services Revenues: Americas $ 602 6% 5% $ 568 EMEA 364 11% 1% 327 Asia Pacific 214 23% 12% 173 Total revenues 1,180 10% 5% 1,068 Expenses: Services (1) 932 4% -1% 892 Stock-based compensation 4 18% 18% 4 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 13 -25% -25% 18 Total expenses 949 4% -2% 914 Total Margin $ 231 49% 41% $ 154 Total Margin % 20% 14% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 53% EMEA 31% 31% Asia Pacific 18% 16% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, the increase in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was primarily due to increased consulting revenues and Oracle Cloud Services revenues. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 51%, EMEA contributed 6% and Asia Pacific contributed 43% to our services revenues growth during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding the impact of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, our services expenses decreased modestly due to lower third-party contractor expenses associated with our Advanced Customer Services offerings and certain other expense reductions. These decreases were partially offset by higher employee related expenses in our consulting segment. On a constant currency basis, both services margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as our total services revenues increased while our total services expenses decreased. 38 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Research and development (1) $ 979 -6% -8% $ 1,044 Stock-based compensation 71 22% 22% 59 Total expenses $ 1,050 -5% -6% $ 1,103 % of Total Revenues 13% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to a reduction in legal costs that were partially offset by an increase in employee related expenses from increased headcount. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 General and administrative (1) $ 271 15% 10% $ 236 Stock-based compensation 40 9% 9% 36 Total expenses $ 311 14% 10% $ 272 % of Total Revenues 4% 4% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in professional fees. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 144 2% 2% $ 141 Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships 29 0% 0% 29 Developed technology 234 -3% -3% 240 Core technology 80 3% 3% 78 Customer relationships 89 -9% -9% 98 Trademarks 16 -5% -5% 17 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 592 -2% -2% $ 603 Amortization of intangible assets decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 due to a reduction in expense associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized during the trailing four quarter period. These decreases were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2011 including those from our acquisitions of Phase Forward during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and ATG during the third quarter of fiscal 2011. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization. 39 Table of Contents Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and changes in fair value of contingent consideration payable (See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report), and certain other operating expenses, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 11 -78% -78% $ 49 Stock-based compensation 1 -56% -56% 1 Professional fees and other, net -100% -100% 31 Business combination adjustments, net 7 314% 287% 2 Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 19 -77% -78% $ 83 On a constant currency basis, the decrease in our acquisition related and other expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was primarily due to a reduction in transitional and other employee related costs and professional services expenses in comparison to those that were incurred in the prior year period primarily related to our acquisition of Sun. Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Restructuring expenses $ 101 -21% -28% $ 129 Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily related to our Sun Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to better align our cost structure as a result of our acquisition of Sun. Restructuring expenses incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 related to both the Sun Restructuring Plan and the Oracle Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the Sun Restructuring Plan are approximately $170 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as the costs are incurred. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Interest expense $ 192 -2% -2% $ 196 Interest expense decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 due to lower average borrowings as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2011 primarily due to the maturity and repayment of $2.25 billion of senior notes in January 2011. 40 Table of Contents Non-Operating Income (Expense), net: Non-operating income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Interest income $ 57 65% 57% $ 34 Foreign currency gains (losses), net (29 ) -160% -159% 49 Noncontrolling interests in income (28 ) -9% -8% (26 ) Other income (losses), net (20 ) -221% -215% 17 Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (20 ) -127% -126% $ 74 We recorded non-operating expense, net during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 in comparison to non-operating income, net in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of net foreign currency transaction losses of $29 million in comparison to net foreign currency transaction gains of $49 million in the corresponding prior year period. Non-operating expense, net in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was partially offset by an increase in interest income resulting from larger average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2011 Actual Constant 2010 Provision for income taxes $ 631 43% 27% $ 443 Effective tax rate 25.6% 24.7% Provision for income taxes increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 substantially due to higher income before provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2011 Change May 31, 2011 Working capital $ 26,150 5% $ 24,982 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 31,660 10% $ 28,848 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of August 31, 2011 in comparison to May 31, 2011 was primarily due to the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2012, partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repurchases of our common stock, and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, 41 Table of Contents corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2011 in comparison to May 31, 2011 was due to an increase in our operating cash flows resulting primarily from the collection of our trade receivables generated by our higher fiscal 2011 fourth quarter sales volumes, cash received for software license updates and product support agreements and an increase in net income in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was partially offset by our repayment of $1.15 billion of short-term borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facilities in June 2011, cash used for acquisitions, the repurchases of our common stock and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $23.2 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 31, 2011. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased as of August 31, 2011 relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2011. Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 45 days at August 31, 2011 compared with 55 days at May 31, 2011. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustments that reduce our acquired software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value. Our decline in days sales outstanding is primarily due to the collection, in our first quarter of fiscal 2012, of large software license and software support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2011. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 Change 2010 Cash provided by operating activities $ 5,421 42% $ 3,817 Cash used for investing activities $ (6,323 ) 61% $ (3,916 ) Cash (used for) provided by financing activities $ (2,211 ) 213% $ 1,960 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales, sales of hardware systems products and hardware systems support arrangements and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware systems products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased net income and the collection of fourth quarter fiscal 2011 trade receivables associated with higher sales volumes, a decrease in cash used to pay income tax related liabilities and other cash favorable working capital movements, partially offset by an increase in cash used to pay higher accrued compensation liabilities such as commissions and bonuses, in each case compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 due to an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities), partially offset by a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises. 42 Table of Contents Net cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased in comparison to cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to our issuance of $3.25 billion of long-term senior notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (none in the first quarter of fiscal 2012), an increase in repayments of borrowings in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 ($1.15 billion of short-term borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facilities were repaid) in comparison to the prior year period ($885 million of commercial paper notes were repaid) and an increase in our common stock repurchases. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 Change 2010 Cash provided by operating activities $ 12,818 46% $ 8,760 Capital expenditures (1) (492 ) 68% (293 ) Free cash flow $ 12,326 46% $ 8,467 Net income $ 9,035 $ 6,363 Free cash flow as a percent of net income 136% 133% (1) Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware systems products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. We financed $123 million and $97 million, respectively, or approximately 8% of our new software license revenues in each of the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011, and $28 million and $47 million, or approximately 3% and 4% of our hardware systems products revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Recent Financing Activities: On June 30, 2011, our revolving credit agreements with BNP Paribas, as initial lender and administrative agent, and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner (the 2011 Credit Agreements), to borrow $1.15 billion were repaid in full and the 2011 Credit Agreements expired pursuant to their terms. Contractual Obligations: The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in preparing this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of August 31, 2011: Year Ending May 31, (Dollars in millions) Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term borrowings (1) $ 14,750 $ $ 1,250 $ $ 1,500 $ 2,000 $ $ 10,000 Interest payments on long-term borrowings (1) 10,575 513 738 676 665 655 550 6,778 Operating leases (2 ) 1,642 358 373 253 183 139 112 224 Purchase obligations and other ( 3 ) 577 543 18 10 3 3 Total contractual obligations $ 27,544 $ 1,414 $ 2,379 $ 939 $ 2,351 $ 2,797 $ 662 $ 17,002 43 Table of Contents (1) Our total borrowings consist of the following as of August 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): Amount 4.95% senior notes due April 2013 $ 1,250 3.75% senior notes due July 2014, including fair value adjustment of $86 1,586 5.25% senior notes due January 2016, net of discount of $5 1,995 5.75% senior notes due April 2018, net of discount of $1 2,499 5.00% senior notes due July 2019, net of discount of $5 1,745 3.875% senior notes due July 2020, net of discount of $2 998 6.50% senior notes due April 2038, net of discount of $2 1,248 6.125% senior notes due July 2039, net of discount of $7 1,243 5.375% senior notes due July 2040, net of discount of $25 2,225 Total borrowings $ 14,789 We have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to our July 2014 senior notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with these senior notes so that the interest obligations effectively became variable with reference to a LIBOR-based index. Interest payments on the July 2014 senior notes presented in the contractual obligations table above have been estimated using an interest rate of 1.35%, which represented our effective interest rate as of August 31, 2011, after consideration of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements, and are subject to change in future periods. The changes in fair value of our debt associated with the interest rate risk that we are hedging pursuant to these agreements are reflected in the carrying value of our July 2014 senior notes in notes payable and other non-current borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and have been included in the above table of total borrowings. (2 ) Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $301 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet at August 31, 2011. (3 ) Primarily represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. We utilize several external manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. We also obtain individual components for our products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in the amount presented in the above contractual obligations table. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods that are not related to our external manufacturers and certain other suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in this amount as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. As of August 31, 2011, we had $3.9 billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including related interest and penalties, recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet and all such obligations have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty as to when they might be settled. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $141 million of these liabilities. Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made during the remainder of fiscal 2012. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during the remainder of fiscal 2012. We have agreed to acquire certain companies for amounts that are not material to our business and expect to close such acquisitions within the next twelve months. Separately, as described in Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, we have contingent consideration payable as a result of our recent acquisition of Pillar Data Systems, Inc. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 44 Table of Contents Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees. The restricted stock-based awards included in the table presented below were assumed as a result of our acquisitions. We recognize that options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2008 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.4% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Some of the outstanding options, which generally have a 10-year exercise period, have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. At August 31, 2011, 26% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2011, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock option and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 8.8%. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants of up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option and restricted stock-based award activity from June 1, 2008 through August 31, 2011 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at May 31, 2008 379 Options granted 354 Options and restricted stock-based awards assumed 33 Options exercised and restricted stock-based awards vested (231 ) Forfeitures, cancellations and other, net (89 ) Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at August 31, 2011 446 Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures 68 Weighted average annualized stock repurchases (97 ) Shares outstanding at August 31, 2011 5,051 Basic weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2008 through August 31, 2011 5,045 Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at August 31, 2011 8.8% In the money options and total restricted stock-based awards outstanding (based on the closing price of our common stock on the last trading day of our fiscal period presented) as a percent of shares outstanding at August 31, 2011 6.6% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2008 through August 31, 2011 1.4% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2008 through August 31, 2011 -0.6% 45 Table of Contents Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report. During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we made our annual grant of stock options and certain other stock option grants and we assumed certain stock options totaling 103 million shares, which were partially offset by forfeitures of 2 million shares. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.