Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses, key operating segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environmentsapplication, platform and infrastructure. Our Oracle Cloud offerings provide a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of application, platform, compute, storage, and networking services in all three primary layers of the cloud: Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Our on-premise offerings include Oracle database and middleware software, application software, hardware (Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking and industry-specific products), and related support and services. We provide our cloud and on-premise offerings to customers worldwide via deployment models that best suit their needs. Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and secure, standards-based and reliable. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our products and services to our customers worldwide for use in their global data centers and on-premise IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how all components within IT environmentsapplication, platform and infrastructureinteract and function with one another. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to take advantage of our research and development investments and deep IT expertise by purchasing and renewing Oracle support offerings, which may include product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our software products, among others, and by renewing their SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us. As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of their IT resources are deployed and managed through the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT resources are deployed and managed on-premise, and both sets of resources can be managed as one. We focus the engineering of our products and services to best connect these different deployment models to enable flexibility, ease, agility, compatibility, extensibility and seamlessness. Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we acquired NetSuite Inc. (NetSuite), which contributed to the growth in our cloud 28 Table of Contents SaaS and PaaS revenues, among others, from the date of acquisition. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our acquisition of NetSuite. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. We have three businesses that deliver our application, platform and infrastructure technologies: cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services. These businesses can be further divided into certain operating segments (Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our operating segments). Each of our businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. An overview of our three businesses and related operating segments follows. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software business, which represented 80% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of three operating segments: (1) cloud software and on-premise software, (2) cloud IaaS and (3) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our cloud and on-premise software business total revenues generally will continue to increase due to demand for our on-premise software products and software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, expected growth from our cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings, and contributions from our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow and continue to make investments in research and development. Cloud Software and On-Premise Software: Our cloud software and on-premise software line of business markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of application and platform technologies through our SaaS and PaaS offerings, which are certain of our software applications and platforms that are delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we host, manage and support. Our cloud software and on-premise software line of business also licenses our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for on-premise and other IT environments. We believe that the comprehensiveness and breadth of our SaaS, PaaS and on-premise software offerings provide greater benefit to our customers and differentiates us from many of our competitors that offer more limited or specialized software offerings. Our SaaS and PaaS offerings are designed to be interoperable with one another, thereby limiting the integration and tuning of multiple cloud applications from multiple vendors. Our SaaS and PaaS offerings are designed to deliver secure data isolation and flexible upgrades, self-service access controls for users, a Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) for integration with on-premise systems, and a high performance, high availability infrastructure based on our infrastructure technologies including our Oracle Engineered Systems. Our on-premise software offerings are substantially designed to operate on both single server and clustered server configurations for cloud or on-premise IT environments, and to support a choice of operating systems including Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and third party UNIX products, among others. Our commitment to industry standards results in software offerings that work in customer environments with Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components and that can be adapted to meet specific industry or business needs. We focus the engineering of our products and services to best connect cloud and on-premise deployment models to enable flexibility, ease, agility, compatibility, extensibility and seamlessness. All of these approaches are designed to support customer choice and reduce customer risk. Our customers include businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We market and sell our cloud software and on-premise software offerings to these customers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best fit customer needs. We enable customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT environment at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. Our SaaS and PaaS revenues and new software licenses revenues are affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the strategy for and competitive position of our software offerings, our acquisitions, our ability to deliver and renew our SaaS and PaaS contracts with our existing customers and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues, which has affected the growth of our cloud SaaS and 29 Table of Contents PaaS revenues and our new software licenses revenues and the related expenses. We expect these trends will continue. Our SaaS and PaaS arrangements are generally one to three years in duration and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. The substantial majority of our new software license transactions are characterized by long sales cycles and the timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues. Cloud software and on-premise software revenues represented 27% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our cloud software and on-premise software segments margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short term. As discussed further below under Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges, our cloud software and on-premise software segments margin has been and will continue to be affected by the fair value adjustments relating to the cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations that we assumed in our business combinations and by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies and technologies that we have acquired. Cloud Infrastructure as a Service: Our cloud IaaS segment, which represented 2% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides Oracle Cloud IaaS offerings, which are infrastructure cloud services that are enterprise-grade, hosted and supported within the Oracle Cloud to perform elastic compute, storage and networking services on a subscription basis. Our cloud IaaS segment also offers Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term that are hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. We believe that our Oracle Cloud IaaS offerings complement our SaaS and PaaS offerings and allow us to offer customers additional opportunities to access Oracle technologies through the Oracle Cloud to meet their IT needs. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates and product support revenues are generated through the sale of software support contracts relating to on-premise new software licenses purchased by our customers. Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration. Substantially all of our on-premise software license customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by four factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts; (2) the amount of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses; (3) the amount of new software license revenues sold; and (4) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Our software license updates and product support segment, which represented 51% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Our software support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 93% and accounted for 87% of our total margins over the same period. Over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all new software licenses transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our software support contract base; substantially all of our on-premise new software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when eligible for renewal; and our acquisitions have increased our software support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. Hardware Business Our hardware business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) hardware products and (2) hardware support. Our hardware business represented 12% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. We expect our 30 Table of Contents hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and on-premise software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. Hardware Products: We provide a broad selection of hardware and related services, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, networking, workstations and related devices, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software to support diverse IT environments, including cloud computing environments. We engineer our hardware products with virtualization and management capabilities to enable the rapid deployment and efficient management of cloud and on-premise IT infrastructures. Our hardware products support many of the worlds largest cloud infrastructures, including the Oracle Cloud. Our hardware products are designed to be easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve computing performance relative to our competitors offerings. We design our hardware products to seamlessly connect cloud and on-premise IT environments to further enable interoperability, interchangeability and extendibility and to work in customer environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. Our flexible and open approach provides Oracle customers with a broad range of choices in how they deploy our hardware products, which we believe is a priority for our customers. Oracle Engineered Systems are core to our hardware offerings and are important elements of our data center and cloud computing offerings including the Oracle Cloud. These pre-integrated products are designed to integrate multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors products; to be upgraded effectively and efficiently; and to simplify maintenance cycles by providing a single solution for software patching. Oracle Engineered Systems are tested before they are shipped to customers and delivered ready-to-run, enabling customers to shorten deployment time to production. We offer certain of our Oracle Engineered Systems technologies through flexible deployment options including as a cloud service and for on-premise IT environments. We offer a wide range of server products using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers run the Oracle Solaris operating system and are designed to be differentiated by their reliability, security and scalability. Our mid-size and large servers are designed to offer better performance and lower total cost of ownership than competitive UNIX systems for business critical applications, for customers having more computationally intensive needs, and as platforms for building cloud computing IT environments. Our SPARC servers are also a core component of the Oracle SuperCluster, one of our Oracle Engineered Systems. We also offer enterprise x86 servers. These x86 servers are based on microprocessors from Intel Corporation and are compatible with Oracle Solaris, Oracle Linux, Microsoft Windows and other operating systems. Our x86 servers are also a core component of many of our Oracle Engineered Systems including the Oracle Exadata Database Machine, Oracle Exalogic Elastic Cloud, Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine and the Oracle Big Data Appliance. Our storage products are engineered for the cloud and designed to securely store, manage, protect, archive, backup and recover customers mission critical data assets. Our storage products consist of disk, flash, tape, virtual tape and hardware-related software including file systems software, back-up and archive software, hierarchical storage management software and networking for mainframe and heterogeneous systems environments. We also offer certain of our storage offerings as a cloud service. Our networking and data center fabric products, including Oracle Virtual Networking, and Oracle InfiniBand and Ethernet technologies, are used with our server and storage products and are integrated into our management tools to help enterprise customers improve infrastructure performance, reduce cost and complexity and simplify storage and server connectivity. We offer hardware products and services designed for certain specific industries. Our point-of-sale hardware offerings include point-of-sale terminals and related hardware that are designed for managing businesses within the food and beverage, hotel and retail industries, among others. Our hardware products and services for 31 Table of Contents communications networks include network signaling, policy control and subscriber data management solutions, and session border control technology, among others. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our Oracle Engineered Systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers and storage products. For all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware-related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. We strive to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types and a build-to-order manufacturing process in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. Our hardware products revenues, cost of hardware products and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware products, the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, certain of our acquisitions and foreign currency rate fluctuations. Our quarterly hardware products revenues are difficult to predict. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions, among other factors, could substantially affect the amount of hardware products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. Hardware Support: Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Typically, our hardware support contract arrangements are priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees, are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. We continue to evolve hardware support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new and renewed hardware support contracts sold in connection with the sales of our hardware products. Our hardware support revenues that we report are influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the pricing and mix of hardware products purchased, whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale, the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and our acquisitions. Substantially all of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Services Business Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of the remainder of our operating segments. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services, certain of our acquisitions, general economic conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, personnel reductions in our customers IT departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending, our strategic emphasis on growing our cloud revenues and the growth in our software and hardware offerings. Our services business offerings include: consulting services that are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our offerings, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial cloud and software implementation and integration, and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, consisting of on-premise consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers; 32 Table of Contents advanced customer support services, which are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services and also include certain other services; and education services for Oracle products and services, including training and certification programs that are offered to customers, partners and employees through a variety of formats, including instructor-led classes at our education centers, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training. Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. We have acquired certain companies and technologies during the fiscal 2017 and 2016 periods presented in this Quarterly Report, including NetSuite. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that our acquisition program strengthens our competitive position, enhances the products and services that we can offer to customers, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. We believe that we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Revenue Recognition; Business Combinations; Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Legal and Other Contingencies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 33 Table of Contents During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2016 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2016 was impacted by our recent acquisitions. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2016, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date to the growth in certain of our operating segments revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons may not be separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses and operating segments into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our on-premise software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, and we strive to renew cloud SaaS and PaaS contracts and hardware support contracts, the amounts shown as cloud SaaS and PaaS deferred revenues, software license updates and product support deferred revenues, and hardware support deferred revenues in our Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. For purposes of presentation of amortization of intangible assets within our condensed consolidated statements of operations included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, we present a single line item within operating expenses and provide appropriate supplemental footnote disclosure. With respect to the presentation and discussion of our segments results for the periods presented, we have assigned the amortization of our intangible assets to the lines of business to which such amortization pertains and also have provided a discussion and presentation of comparative movements for such intangible amortization amounts in totality. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses, in particular, our cloud software and on-premise software segment, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our segments revenues and expenses. As a result, each segments revenues and expenses and our total 34 Table of Contents revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2016, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.06 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 (using 1.06 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.10 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2016 (using 1.10 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016 using the May 31, 2016 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 5,219 6% 5% $ 4,942 $ 14,971 2% 2% $ 14,620 EMEA (1) 2,558 -4% 1% 2,661 7,529 -3% 2% 7,761 Asia Pacific (2) 1,428 1% 0% 1,409 4,335 6% 3% 4,072 Total revenues 9,205 2% 3% 9,012 26,835 1% 2% 26,453 Total Operating Expenses 6,246 4% 5% 5,985 18,199 2% 3% 17,817 Total Operating Margin $ 2,959 -2% -1% $ 3,027 $ 8,636 0% 1% $ 8,636 Total Operating Margin % 32% 34% 32% 33% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 55% 56% 55% EMEA 27% 29% 28% 29% Asia Pacific 16% 16% 16% 16% Total Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software $ 7,365 4% 5% $ 7,084 $ 21,334 4% 5% $ 20,551 Hardware 1,028 -9% -9% 1,135 3,037 -10% -9% 3,385 Services 812 2% 3% 793 2,464 -2% -1% 2,517 Total revenues $ 9,205 2% 3% $ 9,012 $ 26,835 1% 2% $ 26,453 % Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software 80% 78% 80% 78% Hardware 11% 13% 11% 13% Services 9% 9% 9% 9% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) The Asia Pacific region includes Japan Fiscal Third Quarter 2017 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2016: Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues and services revenues, partially offset by a decrease in our hardware business revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and on-premise software revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was attributable to growth in our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS revenues, growth in our software license updates and product support revenues, and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions and was partially offset by decreases in our new software licenses revenues. The constant currency increase in our services 35 Table of Contents business revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. The constant currency decrease in our hardware business revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues. In constant currency, the Americas region contributed 91%, the EMEA region contributed 8% and the Asia Pacific region contributed 1% to the growth in our total revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 relative to the prior year period. In constant currency, we incurred higher sales and marketing and research and development expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due primarily to increased headcount, and higher cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS revenues. These constant currency expense increases in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were partially offset by lower hardware products expenses due to a decline in hardware products revenues, lower software support and hardware support costs due primarily to lower headcount, and lower general and administrative expenses due primarily to lower professional fees, each in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 compared to the prior year period. In constant currency, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to our total expenses growing at a faster rate than our total revenues. First Nine Months Fiscal 2017 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2016: Excluding the effects of currency rate variations, our total revenues increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which was attributable to similar reasons as those noted above, and was partially offset by decreases in our hardware business and services business revenues. In constant currency, the Americas region contributed 56%, the EMEA region contributed 22% and the Asia Pacific region contributed 22% to the growth in our total revenues during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Excluding the effects of currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to constant currency expense increases in sales and marketing, research and development, and cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses, all generally for similar reasons as noted above. These constant currency expense increases during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 were partially offset by lower hardware products expenses, lower software support expenses, and lower hardware support expenses, all generally for similar reasons as noted above, and lower intangible asset amortization due to certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized primarily in our software license updates and product support segment. In constant currency, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of revenues increased slightly during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to the constant currency increase in our total revenues. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. 36 Table of Contents Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other expense and income items that (increased) reduced our GAAP net income: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) February 28, 2017 February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 February 29, 2016 Cloud software as a service and platform as a service deferred revenues (1) $ 69 $ 2 $ 120 $ 6 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) 1 1 Hardware support deferred revenues (1) 1 1 Acquired deferred sales commissions amortization (2) (21 ) (29 ) Amortization of intangible assets (3) 397 408 1,010 1,283 Acquisition related and other (4)(6) 30 11 84 35 Restructuring (5) 161 115 346 293 Stock-based compensation (6) 349 260 984 765 Income tax effects (7) (336 ) (207 ) (823 ) (658 ) $ 649 $ 589 $ 1,694 $ 1,726 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and PaaS subscriptions, software support and hardware support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud SaaS and PaaS, software license updates and product support and hardware support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers to which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. (2) Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. (3) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of February 28, 2017, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of fiscal 2017 $ 402 Fiscal 2018 1,362 Fiscal 2019 1,248 Fiscal 2020 1,058 Fiscal 2021 883 Fiscal 2022 779 Thereafter 2,056 Total intangible assets, net $ 7,788 (4) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. (5) Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 primarily related to costs incurred pursuant to our 2015 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2015 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2016. 37 Table of Contents (6) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 February 29, 2016 Sales and marketing $ 96 $ 57 $ 228 $ 163 Cloud software as a service and platform as a service 6 4 17 13 Cloud infrastructure as a service 1 1 3 3 Software license updates and product support 6 6 18 18 Hardware products 2 1 6 4 Hardware support 1 1 3 4 Services 14 7 31 22 Research and development 191 154 574 452 General and administrative 32 29 104 86 Subtotal $ 349 $ 260 $ 984 $ 765 Acquisition related and other 22 33 3 Total stock-based compensation $ 371 $ 260 $ 1,017 $ 768 (7) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in effective tax rates of 21.6% and 24.1%, respectively, instead of 17.0% and 21.3%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets and the net tax effects of stock-based compensation. Income tax effects for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2016 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 22.6% for both fiscal 2016 periods presented, instead of 21.6% and 21.0%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software business consists of our cloud software and on-premise software segment, our cloud IaaS segment and our software license updates and product support segment. Cloud Software and On-Premise Software: Our cloud software and on-premise software segment engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our cloud software offerings, including our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings, and the licensing of our software for on-premise IT environments. Our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings grant customers access to a broad range of our application and platform software technologies on a subscription basis in a secure, standards-based, cloud computing environment that generally includes access, hosting, infrastructure management, the use of software updates, and support. New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware and our application software products within on-premise IT environments. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud software and on-premise software segment are included in sales and marketing expenses, cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses and amortization of intangible assets. These costs are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software offerings, marketing program costs, the cost of providing our cloud SaaS and PaaS offerings and the amortization of intangible assets including developed technology, customer contracts and customer relationship intangibles. 38 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Cloud Software and On-Premise Software Revenues: Americas $ 1,418 19% 19% $ 1,189 $ 3,641 12% 12% $ 3,262 EMEA 616 -5% 0% 645 1,646 0% 5% 1,651 Asia Pacific 391 -9% -10% 429 1,191 7% 4% 1,113 Total revenues 2,425 7% 8% 2,263 6,478 7% 8% 6,026 Expenses: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service (1) 374 30% 31% 288 1,043 25% 27% 834 Sales and marketing (1) 1,693 4% 5% 1,620 4,989 6% 7% 4,712 Stock-based compensation 98 73% 73% 57 229 39% 39% 165 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 290 43% 43% 204 713 13% 13% 634 Total expenses 2,455 13% 14% 2,169 6,974 10% 11% 6,345 Total Margin $ (30 ) -131% -118% $ 94 $ (496 ) 56% 62% $ (319 ) Total Margin % -1% 4% -8% -5% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 58% 53% 57% 54% EMEA 25% 28% 25% 27% Asia Pacific 17% 19% 18% 19% Revenues by Software Offerings: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service $ 1,011 73% 74% $ 583 $ 2,686 77% 79% $ 1,517 New software licenses 1,414 -16% -15% 1,680 3,792 -16% -15% 4,509 Total cloud software and on-premise software revenues $ 2,425 7% 8% $ 2,263 $ 6,478 7% 8% $ 6,026 % Revenues by Software Offerings: Cloud software as a service and platform as a service 42% 26% 41% 25% New software licenses 58% 74% 59% 75% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud software and on-premise software segment increased by 8 percentage points in each of the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, relative to the corresponding prior year periods due to growth in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of NetSuite, and were partially offset by decreases in our new software licenses revenues. The increases in our cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues and decreases in our new software licenses revenues during the fiscal 2017 periods presented were primarily due to the continued strategic emphasis placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud software offerings and we expect these revenue trends will continue. During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, constant currency revenues growth in the Americas region was partially offset by a revenues decline in the Asia Pacific region. During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed constant currency regional growth of 76%, 15% and 9%, respectively. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations to their estimated fair values as of the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues in the amounts of $69 million and $2 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $120 million and $6 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively, were not recognized during the aforementioned periods and would have been otherwise reported as revenues by our acquired businesses as independent entities. In reported currency, new software licenses revenues earned from transactions of $3 million or greater decreased by 1% and 7% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, and represented 30% and 26% of our new software licenses revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, in comparison to 25% and 24% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2016, respectively. In constant currency, total cloud software and on-premise software expenses increased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily due to higher employee related expenses from increased headcount, higher cloud SaaS and PaaS expenses from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses that were incurred to support the related cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues increases, higher stock-based compensation, and higher amortization of intangible assets due to our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of NetSuite. 39 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud software and on-premise software segments total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented as our total expenses grew at a faster rate than our total revenues for this segment. Cloud Infrastructure as a Service: Our cloud IaaS segment includes Oracle Cloud IaaS and Oracle Managed Cloud Services offerings. Oracle Cloud IaaS provides infrastructure cloud services that are enterprise-grade, hosted and supported within the Oracle Cloud to perform elastic compute, storage and networking services on a subscription basis. Oracle Managed Cloud Services are comprehensive software and hardware management and maintenance services for customer IT infrastructure for a fee for a stated term that are hosted at our Oracle data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. Our cloud IaaS segments expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs. Operating expenses associated with our IaaS offerings also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related, and amortization of intangible assets. For the fiscal 2016 periods presented, our cloud IaaS segments revenues and expenses were substantially attributable to our Oracle Managed Cloud Services offerings. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Cloud Infrastructure as a Service Revenues: Americas $ 131 16% 16% $ 113 $ 382 9% 10% $ 349 EMEA 36 19% 30% 30 106 5% 17% 100 Asia Pacific 11 24% 21% 9 37 36% 30% 28 Total revenues 178 17% 19% 152 525 10% 13% 477 Expenses: Cloud infrastructure as a service (1) 124 43% 45% 87 330 25% 26% 265 Sales and marketing (1) 15 -15% -14% 17 48 -13% -11% 55 Stock-based compensation 1 -5% -5% 1 4 8% 8% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 1 -22% -22% 1 7 67% 67% 4 Total expenses 141 32% 34% 106 389 19% 20% 327 Total Margin $ 37 -18% -15% $ 46 $ 136 -9% -5% $ 150 Total Margin % 21% 30% 26% 31% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 73% 74% 73% 73% EMEA 20% 20% 20% 21% Asia Pacific 7% 6% 7% 6% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, our total cloud IaaS segment revenues increased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented due primarily to growth in our Oracle Cloud IaaS offerings. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas region contributed 62% and 59%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 31% and 27%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 7% and 14%, respectively, to the increases in our total cloud IaaS segment revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. On a constant currency basis, our cloud IaaS segments total expenses increased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily due to higher technology infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud IaaS revenues. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total revenues decreased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented as total expenses increased at a faster rate than our total revenues for this segment. 40 Table of Contents Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to on-premise new software licenses purchased by our customers. Our software license updates and product support offerings include software license updates, which grant on-premise software customers rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the support period, and product support including internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 2,731 3% 2% $ 2,662 $ 8,133 2% 2% $ 7,965 EMEA 1,367 -2% 3% 1,394 4,179 -2% 3% 4,257 Asia Pacific 664 8% 7% 613 2,019 11% 7% 1,826 Total revenues 4,762 2% 3% 4,669 14,331 2% 3% 14,048 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 264 -8% -8% 287 768 -11% -10% 859 Stock-based compensation 6 5% 5% 6 18 5% 5% 18 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 36 -73% -73% 131 120 -71% -71% 413 Total expenses 306 -28% -28% 424 906 -30% -29% 1,290 Total Margin $ 4,456 5% 6% $ 4,245 $ 13,425 5% 6% $ 12,758 Total Margin % 94% 91% 94% 91% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 57% 57% 57% EMEA 29% 30% 29% 30% Asia Pacific 14% 13% 14% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented as a result of substantially all customers electing to purchase software support contracts in conjunction with their new software licenses purchased during the trailing 4-quarter period, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas region contributed 37% and 40%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 29% and 28%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 34% and 32%, respectively, to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. In constant currency, total software license updates and product support expenses decreased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented due primarily to lower employee related expenses resulting from lower headcount and a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. In constant currency, total margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented due to the growth in total revenues and the decrease in total expenses for this segment. Hardware Business Our hardware business consists of our hardware products segment and hardware support segment. Hardware Products: Hardware products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer server, storage, networking, workstations and related devices and industry-specific hardware products. We market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware products include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used 41 Table of Contents to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Hardware Products Revenues : Americas $ 237 -18% -19% $ 289 $ 712 -20% -20% $ 892 EMEA 158 -17% -14% 192 429 -14% -10% 500 Asia Pacific 125 1% 1% 123 337 -5% -6% 354 Total revenues 520 -14% -13% 604 1,478 -15% -14% 1,746 Expenses: Hardware products (1) 288 -14% -14% 337 769 -20% -19% 963 Sales and marketing (1) 200 -4% -4% 209 618 -5% -4% 648 Stock-based compensation 6 18% 18% 5 21 35% 35% 15 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 52 56% 56% 34 113 -2% -2% 116 Total expenses 546 -6% -6% 585 1,521 -13% -12% 1,742 Total Margin $ (26 ) -244% -234% $ 19 $ (43 ) -926% -807% $ 4 Total Margin % -5% 3% -3% 0% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 46% 48% 48% 51% EMEA 30% 32% 29% 29% Asia Pacific 24% 20% 23% 20% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware products revenues decreased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to reductions in sales volumes of certain of our product lines, including lower margin products, partially offset by revenues growth in certain of our Oracle Engineered Systems. On a constant currency basis, hardware products revenues declined across all regions during the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior years with the exception of Asia Pacific during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, which grew modestly. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware products expenses decreased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to lower hardware products costs associated with lower hardware products revenues. For the fiscal 2017 periods presented, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware products segment decreased on a constant currency basis in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the decrease in our total revenues for this segment. Hardware Support: Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets primarily associated with hardware support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions. 42 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Hardware Support Revenues: Americas $ 274 -3% -3% $ 281 $ 835 -3% -3% $ 863 EMEA 142 -10% -6% 158 440 -11% -7% 495 Asia Pacific 92 1% -1% 92 284 1% -2% 281 Total revenues 508 -4% -3% 531 1,559 -5% -4% 1,639 Expenses: Hardware support (1) 146 -15% -14% 170 436 -17% -16% 522 Stock-based compensation 1 -7% -7% 1 3 -17% -17% 4 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 18 -52% -52% 36 56 -49% -49% 110 Total expenses 165 -21% -20% 207 495 -22% -22% 636 Total Margin $ 343 7% 8% $ 324 $ 1,064 6% 7% $ 1,003 Total Margin % 68% 61% 68% 61% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 54% 53% 54% 53% EMEA 28% 30% 28% 30% Asia Pacific 18% 17% 18% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, hardware support revenues decreased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to reductions in sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines for which we offer hardware support. On a constant currency basis, hardware support revenues declined across all regions during the fiscal 2017 periods presented. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware support expenses decreased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily due to lower employee related expenses resulting from lower headcount and a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. In constant currency, total hardware support margin and margin as a percentage of total revenues increased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the total expense reductions for this segment. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, advanced customer support services and education services. Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in business and IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, initial software implementation and integration, and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. Advanced customer support services are provided on-premise and remotely to our customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their Oracle products and services and also include certain other services. Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, live virtual training, self-paced online training, private events and custom training in the use of our cloud, on-premise software and hardware offerings. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. 43 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Services Revenues: Americas $ 428 5% 4% $ 408 $ 1,268 -2% -1% $ 1,289 EMEA 239 -1% 4% 242 729 -4% 2% 758 Asia Pacific 145 1% 0% 143 467 -1% -3% 470 Total revenues 812 2% 3% 793 2,464 -2% -1% 2,517 Expenses: Services (1) 666 2% 3% 650 2,042 0% 2% 2,036 Stock-based compensation 14 98% 98% 7 31 43% 43% 22 Amortization of intangible assets (2) -83% -83% 2 1 -77% -77% 6 Total expenses 680 3% 4% 659 2,074 0% 2% 2,064 Total Margin $ 132 -2% -2% $ 134 $ 390 -14% -13% $ 453 Total Margin % 16% 17% 16% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 51% 51% 51% EMEA 29% 31% 30% 30% Asia Pacific 18% 18% 19% 19% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2017 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2016: Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Constant currency increases in our consulting revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2017, which were primarily attributable to revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions, were partially offset by constant currency decreases in our education revenues. On a constant currency basis, services revenues growth during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to the Americas and EMEA regions. In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in expenses associated with our consulting segment, which were primarily attributable to increased headcount from our recent acquisitions. In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as our total expenses grew faster than our total revenues for this segment. First Nine Months Fiscal 2017 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2016: Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues declined in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to decreases in our education revenues, partially offset by a modest increase in our advanced customer support revenues and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, services revenues growth in the EMEA region during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was offset by services revenues declines in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions. In constant currency, our total services expenses increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a $30 million charge, which was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and not expected to recur, and due to expense contributions from our recent acquisitions. In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to the growth in total services expenses for this segment. As of our most recent annual goodwill impairment review date of March 1, 2016, our consulting reporting units fair value was 11% in excess of its carrying value. As of March 1, 2016, we estimated that should our consulting reporting units projected margins and related cash flows unfavorably deviate from our projections by 20% or more each year, our consulting reporting unit likely could incur a goodwill impairment loss. We did not record any goodwill impairment losses during any of the fiscal 2017 and 2016 periods presented. Pursuant to our accounting policy, we will perform our next annual goodwill impairment test as of March 1, 2017. 44 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Research and development (1) $ 1,330 5% 6% $ 1,265 $ 3,977 5% 6% $ 3,801 Stock-based compensation 191 24% 24% 154 574 27% 27% 452 Total expenses $ 1,521 7% 8% $ 1,419 $ 4,551 7% 8% $ 4,253 % of Total Revenues 17% 16% 17% 16% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to increased employee related expenses resulting from increased headcount, including additional headcount from our recent acquisitions, and higher stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant General and administrative (1) $ 209 -20% -18% $ 261 $ 755 1% 3% $ 746 Stock-based compensation 32 9% 9% 29 104 21% 21% 86 Total expenses $ 241 -17% -15% $ 290 $ 859 3% 5% $ 832 % of Total Revenues 3% 3% 3% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation Fiscal Third Quarter 2017 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2016: On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due primarily to lower professional services expenses, primarily legal related expenses, partially offset by increased employee related expenses attributable to higher headcount. First Nine Months Fiscal 2017 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2016: On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 increased due to increased employee related expenses resulting from increased headcount and higher stock-based compensation. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets are acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Developed technology $ 182 36% 36% $ 134 $ 462 8% 8% $ 427 SaaS, PaaS and IaaS agreements and related relationships 103 94% 94% 53 251 57% 57% 160 Software support agreements and related relationships 31 -67% -67% 93 94 -68% -68% 297 Other 81 -37% -37% 128 203 -49% -49% 399 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 397 -3% -3% $ 408 $ 1,010 -21% -21% $ 1,283 45 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets decreased during the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, including those associated with our acquisition of NetSuite. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Transitional and other employee related costs $ 15 98% 98% $ 8 $ 31 -22% -21% $ 40 Stock-based compensation 22 * * 33 977% 977% 3 Professional fees and other, net (2 ) -164% -170% 1 26 176% 178% 10 Business combination adjustments, net (5 ) -453% -487% 2 (6 ) 65% 59% (18 ) Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 30 187% 174% $ 11 $ 84 141% 144% $ 35 * Not meaningful On a constant currency basis, the increases in acquisition related and other expenses during the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods were primarily due to higher stock compensation expenses as a result of our acquisition of NetSuite. In addition, during the first nine months of fiscal 2016, we recognized an acquisition related benefit of $19 million, which decreased acquisition related and other expenses during this period. Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses primarily consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2016. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Restructuring expenses $ 161 39% 42% $ 115 $ 346 18% 21% $ 293 Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2016 periods presented primarily related to our 2015 Restructuring Plan, which is complete. Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $615 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan were approximately $252 million as of February 28, 2017 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2018. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. 46 Table of Contents Interest Expense: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Interest expense $ 450 25% 25% $ 360 $ 1,317 19% 19% $ 1,105 Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2017 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $14.0 billion of senior notes in July 2016. These increases in interest expense during the fiscal 2017 periods presented were partially offset by reductions in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $2.0 billion of senior notes in January 2016. See Recent Financing Activities below and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information regarding our fiscal 2017 borrowings. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Interest income $ 197 39% 39% $ 141 $ 578 51% 52% $ 382 Foreign currency losses, net (20 ) 30% 29% (15 ) (102 ) 50% 64% (68 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (20 ) 44% 44% (36 ) (95 ) -1% -1% (95 ) Other income (loss), net 32 227% 227% (25 ) 56 242% 242% (40 ) Total non-operating income, net $ 189 190% 187% $ 65 $ 437 144% 141% $ 179 On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net for the fiscal 2017 periods presented increased primarily due to higher interest income resulting from higher cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances and higher interest rates. In addition, we incurred higher other income, net during the fiscal 2017 periods presented related to investment gains for our deferred compensation plan investments that we held and classified as trading in comparison to net losses for such investments during the fiscal 2016 periods presented. The aforementioned favorable movements in non-operating income, net during the fiscal 2017 periods presented were partially offset by higher foreign currency losses, net during the fiscal 2017 periods presented. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. In addition, beginning in fiscal 2017, the provision for income taxes also differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to tax effects of stock-based compensation (refer to Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional discussion). Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, among others. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 February 28, 2017 Percent Change February 29, 2016 (Dollars in millions) Actual Constant Actual Constant Provision for income taxes $ 459 -22% -22% $ 590 $ 1,653 2% 2% $ 1,623 Effective tax rate 17.0% 21.6% 21.3 % 21.0% Fiscal Third Quarter 2017 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2016: Provision for income taxes in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 decreased relative to the corresponding prior year period due to the favorable tax effects of excess tax benefits 47 Table of Contents recognized on stock-based compensation expense during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 and net favorable changes relating to unrecognized tax benefits from audit settlements, statute of limitation releases, and other events during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. These favorable impacts to our third quarter of fiscal 2017 provision for income taxes were partially offset by an unfavorable jurisdictional mix of earnings during fiscal 2017 relative to the corresponding prior year period. First Nine Months Fiscal 2017 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2016: Provision for income taxes in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 increased relative to the corresponding prior year period due to net unfavorable changes relating to unrecognized tax benefits from audit settlements, statute of limitation releases, and other events, as well as an unfavorable jurisdictional mix of earnings. These unfavorable movements were substantially offset by the favorable impact of excess tax benefits recognized for stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2017, which were not available in fiscal 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) February 28, 2017 Change May 31, 2016 Working capital $ 50,221 7% $ 47,105 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 59,352 6% $ 56,125 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of February 28, 2017 in comparison to May 31, 2016 was primarily due to our issuance of $14.0 billion of long-term senior notes in July 2016, the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and cash proceeds from stock option exercises. These favorable working capital movements were partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, including our $9.1 billion acquisition of NetSuite in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, cash used for repurchases of our common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at February 28, 2017 in comparison to May 31, 2016 was primarily due to cash inflows generated by our operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, $9.8 billion of cash inflows, net of repayments, from fiscal 2017 debt issuances, and cash inflows from stock option exercises. These cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows for acquisitions, including our acquisition of NetSuite, repurchases of our common stock, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $52.2 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of February 28, 2017, a significant portion of which was generated from the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries that we consider as indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations outside the United States. These undistributed earnings that are considered as indefinitely reinvested overseas would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of February 28, 2017 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from our May 31, 2016 balance sheet date. Days sales outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 36 days at February 28, 2017 compared with 46 days at May 31, 2016. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the impact of any revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations 48 Table of Contents that reduced our acquired cloud SaaS and PaaS obligations, software license updates and product support obligations and hardware support obligations to fair value. The decline in days sales outstanding was primarily due to strong collections in our first nine months of fiscal 2017 and seasonality resulting in a large volume of software license, hardware products and software support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2016. Nine Months Ended (Dollars in millions) February 28, 2017 Change February 29, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,660 -2% $ 9,892 Net cash used for investing activities $ (15,648 ) 289% $ (4,026 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 5,799 149% $ (11,750 ) Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings, hardware products, hardware support arrangements and services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased slightly during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due primarily to unfavorable working capital movements during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 including an increase in cash used to purchase inventories and a decrease in unearned software license updates and product support revenues relative to the amount of such revenue recognized during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, each in relation to the corresponding movements in the first nine months of fiscal 2016. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to our acquisitions, the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities and other investments, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities, and increased capital expenditures primarily related to fiscal 2017 real estate purchases. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was $5.8 billion in comparison to net cash used for financing activities of $11.8 billion during the first nine months of fiscal 2016. The change in financing activities cash flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 in comparison to the corresponding prior year period was primarily related to borrowing activities, net of debt repayments, for which we received $9.8 billion of net cash proceeds during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 in comparison to $2.0 billion of net cash outflows related to debt settlements during the first nine months of fiscal 2016. In addition, we reduced our stock repurchase activity during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, which decreased our cash used relative to the corresponding prior year period. 49 Table of Contents Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended (Dollars in millions) February 28, 2017 Change February 29, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 13,453 -6% $ 14,252 Capital expenditures (1,676 ) 4% (1,606 ) Free cash flow $ 11,777 -7% $ 12,646 Net income $ 8,917 $ 8,844 Free cash flow as percent of net income 132% 143% Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $509 million and $548 million, respectively, or approximately 13% and 12%, respectively, of our new software licenses revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and 2016, and $75 million and $102 million, respectively, or approximately 5% and 6%, respectively, of our hardware products revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and 2016. Recent Financing Activities: Cash Dividends : In March 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of our outstanding common stock, an increase of $0.04 per share over the prior period dividend. The dividend is payable on April 26, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 12, 2017. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Senior Notes : In July 2016, we issued $14.0 billion of senior notes comprised of the following: $4.25 billion of 1.90% senior notes due September 2021; $2.5 billion of 2.40% senior notes due September 2023; $3.0 billion of 2.65% senior notes due July 2026; $1.25 billion of 3.85% senior notes due July 2036; and $3.0 billion of 4.00% senior notes due July 2046. We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions. Additional details regarding the senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Other Fiscal 2017 Borrowings Activities : In connection with our acquisition of NetSuite in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we assumed $310 million par value of legacy NetSuite convertible notes (NetSuite Debt), which had a fair value of $342 million as of the acquisition date. In December 2016, we repurchased and settled for cash substantially all of the NetSuite Debt (refer to Note 2 and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for additional discussion). 50 Table of Contents In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we assumed $113 million of debt due August 1, 2025 in connection with the acquisition of certain land and buildings. In May 2016, we borrowed $3.8 billion pursuant to three revolving credit agreements with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as initial lender and administrative agent (the 2016 Credit Agreements). In June 2016, we repaid the $3.8 billion and the 2016 Credit Agreements expired pursuant to their terms. Contractual Obligations: During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2016 other than our issuance of $14.0 billion of senior notes. Additional details regarding our issuance of $14.0 billion of senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our pending and future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2013 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.4% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at February 28, 2017, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, less than 1% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we have reduced the level of our stock repurchases and we may continue to reduce stock repurchases in the future, as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At February 28, 2017, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.5%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.