Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of information technology (IT) environmentsapplications, platform and infrastructure. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models, including cloud-based, on-premise, or hybrid, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. We have three businesses: cloud and license; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. The descriptions set forth below as a part of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the information contained within Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments and align to how our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officers and Chief Technology Officer, view our operating results and allocate resources. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues include: license support revenues, which are earned by providing license support services to customers that have elected to purchase support services in connection with the purchase of Oracle applications, platform and/or infrastructure software licenses. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements for which current license support customers are entitled to receive. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase a cloud license and/or on-premise license; are generally billed in advance of the support services being performed; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period that the support services are provided, which is generally one year; and cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. 31 Table of Contents Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized rat ably over their contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above. Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. Our cloud and license business revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; our ability to deliver our cloud services to our customers; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and license revenues generally will continue to increase due to: expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings; continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license offerings; and contributions from our acquisitions. We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services. Our cloud and license business margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base; the renewal of existing customers cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those four quarterly periods. Hardware Business Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through 32 Table of Contents indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support servic es. Hardware support contracts are entered into at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the c ontractual terms. We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by, among others: our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions; our strategy for and the position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings such as PaaS and IaaS; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; certain of our acquisitions; and foreign currency rate fluctuations . Services Business Our services business helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and represented 9% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by, among others: our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; certain of our acquisitions; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers IT departments; and tighter controls over customer discretionary spending. Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. 33 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Revenue Recognition; Business Combinations; Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Legal and Other Contingencies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance: ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12, ASU 2016-20, ASU 2017-10, ASU 2017-13 and ASU 2017-14, (collectively, Topic 606), utilizing the full retrospective method of transition whereby the results for the comparative fiscal 2018 period presented throughout this Form 10-Q were recast to be presented as if Topic 606 had been in effect during such fiscal 2018 period, the impacts of which were not material relative to the historical amounts previously reported. Please see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information about our adoption of Topic 606 and its impact on our consolidated financial statements. Except for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2018. Results of Operations Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year period was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018. Information regarding our adoption and the prospective impacts of the Tax Act on our tax and liquidity profile is included in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and also in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. Impacts of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018 was impacted by our recent acquisitions. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in certain 34 Table of Contents of our businesses revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may a lso provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons may not be separately identifiable due to the integration of these busines ses into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and the amounts shown as cloud services and license support deferred revenues in our Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses, in particular, our cloud and license business and hardware business, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businessescloud and license, hardware and serviceswhich are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting . The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating income, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our three businesses including such items and/or it is impractical to do so. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed 35 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision of income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2018, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.17 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 (using 1.17 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.20 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 (using 1.20 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 using the May 31, 2018 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 5,161 1% 2% $ 5,098 EMEA (1) 2,576 2% 3% 2,535 Asia Pacific (2) 1,456 -1% 1% 1,471 Total revenues 9,193 1% 2% 9,104 Total Operating Expenses 6,415 1% 2% 6,355 Total Operating Margin $ 2,778 1% 3% $ 2,749 Total Operating Margin % 30% 30% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 56% 56% EMEA 28% 28% Asia Pacific 16% 16% Total Revenues by Business: Cloud and license $ 7,476 2% 4% $ 7,301 Hardware 904 -4% -3% 943 Services 813 -5% -4% 860 Total revenues $ 9,193 1% 2% $ 9,104 % Revenues by Business: Cloud and license 81% 81% Hardware 10% 10% Services 9% 9% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) The Asia Pacific region includes Japan 36 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to growth in our cloud and license revenues, which were partially offse t by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as custome rs purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was due to the reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was attributable to declines in our consulting services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 54%, 38% and 8%, respectively, to the growth in our first quarter of fiscal 2019 total revenues. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both increases of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our revenues; and increased stock-based compensation expenses. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which primarily consisted of lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; and lower restructuring expenses. In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the increase in total revenues; and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments, expenses related to acquisitions, and certain other expense, and income items that affected our GAAP net income: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Cloud services and license support deferred revenues (1) $ 8 $ 25 Acquired deferred sales commissions amortization (2) (11 ) Amortization of intangible assets (3) 434 411 Acquisition related and other (4)(6) 14 12 Restructuring (5) 90 124 Stock-based compensation, operating segments (6) 134 124 Stock-based compensation, R&D and G&A (6) 302 278 Income tax effects (7) (245 ) (510 ) Income tax reform (8) (153 ) $ 584 $ 453 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. (2) Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. 37 Table of Contents (3) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2018, estimated future amortization related to intangible assets was as follows (in millions): Remainder of fiscal 2019 $ 1,190 Fiscal 2020 1,419 Fiscal 2021 1,198 Fiscal 2022 982 Fiscal 2023 629 Fiscal 2024 388 Thereafter 489 Total intangible assets, net $ 6,295 (4) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. (5) Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in managements discussion below under Restructuring Expenses, Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. (6) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2018 2017 Cloud services and license support $ 24 $ 18 Hardware 3 3 Services 13 14 Sales and marketing 94 89 Stock-based compensation, operating segments 134 124 Research and development 257 234 General and administrative 45 44 Acquisition related and other 1 Total stock-based compensation $ 436 $ 403 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (7) For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, excluding income tax reform (see footnote (8) below), resulted in an effective tax rate of 19.1%, instead of 10.8% which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Income tax effects for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 25.0%, instead of 14.2% which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects for stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. (8) The income tax reform adjustment for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 presented in the table above was due to the enactment of the Tax Act (refer to Provision for Income Taxes below for additional discussion), which was effective for us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 and for which we continue to refine our estimates related to our adoption of the Tax Act pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118). Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and 38 Table of Contents on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the softw are is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect c hannels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cl oud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Cloud and License Revenues: Americas (1) $ 4,293 2% 3% $ 4,202 EMEA (1) 2,063 2% 4% 2,015 Asia Pacific (1) 1,128 2% 4% 1,109 Total revenues (1) 7,484 2% 4% 7,326 Expenses: Cloud services and license support (2) 867 6% 7% 819 Sales and marketing (2) 1,744 4% 6% 1,677 Total expenses (2) 2,611 5% 6% 2,496 Total Margin $ 4,873 1% 2% $ 4,830 Total Margin % 65% 66% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 57% 57% EMEA 28% 28% Asia Pacific 15% 15% Revenues by Offerings: Cloud services and license support (1) $ 6,617 3% 4% $ 6,432 Cloud license and on-premise license 867 -3% 0% 894 Total revenues (1) $ 7,484 2% 4% $ 7,326 Revenues by Ecosystem: Applications revenues (1) $ 2,769 5% 6% $ 2,638 Platform and infrastructure revenues (1) 4,715 1% 2% 4,688 Total revenues (1) $ 7,484 2% 4% $ 7,326 (1) Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above for additional information. (2) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. 39 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and license business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues, which was primarily due to increased customer purchases and renewals of cloud-based services and license support services in recent periods for which we delivered such services during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and due to c ontributions from our recent acquisitions. In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total platform and infrastructure revenues each grew during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, each relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as cus tomers continued to deploy our applications technologies and platform and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice. The Americas region contributed 52%, the EMEA region contribu ted 31%, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 17%, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount. In addition, our constant currency cloud services and license support expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to higher technology infrastructure expenses that supported the growth in our revenues. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segments total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the increase in revenues for this segment, while total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment. Hardware Business Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. 40 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Hardware Revenues: Americas $ 465 -4% -3% $ 485 EMEA 260 -4% -2% 271 Asia Pacific 179 -5% -3% 187 Total revenues 904 -4% -3% 943 Expenses: Hardware products and support (1) 317 -13% -12% 365 Sales and marketing (1) 139 -20% -18% 174 Total expenses (1) 456 -15% -14% 539 Total Margin $ 448 11% 12% $ 404 Total Margin % 50% 43% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 51% EMEA 29% 29% Asia Pacific 20% 20% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to lower hardware products revenues and, to a lesser extent, lower hardware support revenues. The decreases in hardware products revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, were primarily attributable to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts in recent periods. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to lower hardware products costs and lower sales and marketing employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, due to lower expenses. Services Business We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. 41 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Services Revenues: Americas $ 410 -5% -3% $ 432 EMEA 253 1% 3% 249 Asia Pacific 150 -16% -14% 179 Total revenues 813 -5% -4% 860 Total Expenses (1) 676 2% 4% 662 Total Margin $ 137 -31% -30% $ 198 Total Margin % 17% 23% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 50% EMEA 31% 29% Asia Pacific 18% 21% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to revenue declines in our consulting services. Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the EMEA region. In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Research and development (1) $ 1,307 -2% -1% $ 1,338 Stock-based compensation 257 10% 10% 234 Total expenses $ 1,564 -1% 0% $ 1,572 % of Total Revenues 17% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 General and administrative (1) $ 276 1% 2% $ 275 Stock-based compensation 45 2% 2% 44 Total expenses $ 321 1% 2% $ 319 % of Total Revenues 3% 4% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation 42 Table of Contents O n a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased modestly during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 , relative to the corresponding prior year period primarily due to higher professional services expenses that were primarily legal related, and higher stock-based compensation. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets were acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Developed technology $ 212 12% 12% $ 190 Cloud services and license support agreements and related relationships 192 5% 5% 182 Other 30 -23% -23% 39 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 434 6% 6% $ 411 Amortization of intangible assets increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, and certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those restricted stock-based awards and stock options. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 14 53% 55% $ 9 Stock-based compensation -100% -100% 1 Professional fees and other, net 2 -29% -24% 3 Business combination adjustments, net (2 ) 14% 16% (1 ) Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 14 21% 23% $ 12 On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher transitional employee related costs. Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to 43 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Restructuring expenses $ 90 -28% -27% $ 124 Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete. Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $432 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan were approximately $325 million as of August 31, 2018 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2020. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Interest expense $ 529 13% 13% $ 469 Interest expense increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in November 2017 which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $6.0 billion of senior notes during fiscal 2018. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Interest income $ 348 35% 36% $ 257 Foreign currency losses, net (34 ) 686% 613% (4 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (39 ) -16% -16% (46 ) Other income, net 16 26% 24% 13 Total non-operating income, net $ 291 33% 34% $ 220 On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher interest income resulting from higher interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rates for each of the periods presented were the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. In our third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Tax Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Tax Act as applicable to us are described in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and are also described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2018. Our provision for income taxes for the first three months of fiscal 2019 varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Tax Act due primarily to earnings in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, the Foreign Derived Intangible Income deduction, 44 Table of Contents the tax effect of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, and a reduction to our transition tax recorded consiste nt with the provisions of SAB 118. Our provision for income taxes for the first three months of fiscal 2018 differed from the tax computed at the previous U.S. federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to certain earnings considered as indefinitely r einvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation reali zed by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2018 Actual Constant 2017 Provision for income taxes $ 275 -23% -23% $ 356 Effective tax rate 10.8% 14.2% Provision for income taxes decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to the net favorable impact of the Tax Act (taking into account the favorable impact on our tax profile) during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, pursuant to SAB 118, partially offset by lower realized excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2018 Change May 31, 2018 Working capital $ 47,447 -17% $ 57,035 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 60,094 -11% $ 67,261 Working capital: The decrease in working capital as of August 31, 2018 in comparison to May 31, 2018 was primarily due to cash used for repurchases of our common stock, the reclassification of $1.75 billion of long-term senior notes as a current liability and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the favorable effects to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from stock option exercises. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2018 in comparison to May 31, 2018 was primarily due to $10.0 billion of repurchases of our common stock, the repayment of $2.5 billion of borrowings, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. These cash outflows during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were partially offset by certain cash inflows, primarily cash inflows generated by our operations and cash inflows from stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2018 balance sheet date. 45 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2018 Change 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,722 2% $ 6,566 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ 3,532 294% $ (1,818 ) Net cash used for financing activities $ (13,333 ) 145% $ (5,441 ) Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their license support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new licenses, cloud services, hardware offerings and other services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to higher net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to our acquisitions, the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash provided by investing activities was $3.5 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $1.8 billion of net cash used for investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to an increase in net of proceeds received from sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments, net of purchases. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. Net cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to increased stock repurchases (we repurchased $10.0 billion of common stock in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $502 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018) and lower cash inflows from stock option exercises relative to the corresponding prior year period. These unfavorable financing cash flows were partially offset by a reduction in the amount of debt repayments made during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2018 Change 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,542 5% $ 14,817 Capital expenditures (1,646 ) -25% (2,195 ) Free cash flow $ 13,896 10% $ 12,622 Net income $ 3,708 $ 9,745 Free cash flow as percent of net income 375% 130% Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire licenses, cloud services, hardware and other services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial 46 Table of Contents institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrende red control of these financing receivables. We financed $89 million and $191 million, respectively, or approximately 10% and 21%, respectively, of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018. Contractual Obligations: During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2015 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.6% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at August 31, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, approximately 24.9% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.5%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.