Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments. Our products and services include enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud@Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customers own data center). Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers needs. Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We have three businesses: cloud and license; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. The descriptions set forth below as a part of this Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the information contained within Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments and align to how our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer, view our operating results and allocate resources. Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Oracles Business For a discussion of the impacts on and risks to our business from COVID-19, please refer to Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Oracles Business included in Item 1 Business and certain risk factors included in Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021; and the information presented below in Results of Operations as a part of this Item 2 of this Quarterly Report. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business, which represented 84% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of enterprise applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings. Revenue streams included in our cloud and license business are: Cloud services and license support revenues, which include: o license support revenues, which are earned by providing Oracle license support services to customers that have elected to purchase support services in connection with the purchase of Oracle applications and infrastructure software licenses for use in cloud, on-premise and other IT environments. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements, which current license support customers are entitled to receive. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase a cloud license and/or on-premise license; are generally billed in advance of the support services being performed; are generally renewed at the customers option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period that the support services are provided, which is generally one year; and 24 Table of Contents o cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, deploys, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; generally have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customers option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time . Cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized as revenues up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point-in-time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as further described above. Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. The proportion of our cloud services and license support revenues relative to our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, hardware revenues and services revenues has increased and we expect this trend to continue. Cloud services and license support revenues represented 76% and 74% of our total revenues in the first three months of fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our cloud and license business revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; our ability to manage Oracle Cloud capacity requirements to meet existing and prospective customer demand; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and license revenues generally will continue to increase due to: expected growth in our cloud services and license support offerings; and continued demand for our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business total revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development and our cloud operations to develop, improve, increase the capacity of and expand the geographic footprint of our cloud and license products and services. Our cloud and license business margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the 25 Table of Contents customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably or based upon customer usage over the respective contractual terms and the renewal of existing customers cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues in a similar manner; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; in each case over those four fiscal quarterly periods . Hardware Business Our hardware business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of enterprise hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware offerings, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by many factors, including our manufacturing partners abilities to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions; our strategy for and the position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings, including cloud infrastructure offerings; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; and foreign currency rate fluctuations . Services Business Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services and advanced customer services. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are affected by many factors including our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers IT departments; tighter controls over customer discretionary spending; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. 26 Table of Contents Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Historically, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. The pace of our acquisitions has slowed in recent years, but as compelling opportunities become available, we may acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flows and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Revenue Recognition; Business Combinations; Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Legal and Other Contingencies. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2021 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated operating expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our consolidated statements of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. In addition, we discuss below the results of each of our three businessescloud and license, hardware and serviceswhich are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting . The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each of our three businesses in the discussion below. 27 Table of Contents Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation is noted to include any revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of these items and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating expenses, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our three businesses including such items and/or it is impractical to do so. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision for income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. We experienced COVID-19 related impacts to our businesses during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and 2021. Certain of these historical impacts on our operating results are further discussed below. Any future impacts are currently unknown. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses revenues and expenses. As a result, each of our businesses revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2021, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2021 and 2020, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.17 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 (using 1.17 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.18 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 (using 1.18 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and 2021 using the May 31, 2021 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 28 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Total Revenues by Geography : Americas $ 5,321 5% 4% $ 5,068 EMEA (1) 2,784 2% -1% 2,738 Asia Pacific 1,623 4% 3% 1,561 Total revenues 9,728 4% 2% 9,367 Total Operating Expenses 6,301 2% 1% 6,156 Total Operating Margin $ 3,427 7% 5% $ 3,211 Total Operating Margin % 35% 34% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 55% 54% EMEA 28% 29% Asia Pacific 17% 17% Total Revenues by Business : Cloud and license $ 8,184 4% 3% $ 7,833 Hardware 763 -6% -7% 814 Services 781 8% 7% 720 Total revenues $ 9,728 4% 2% $ 9,367 % Revenues by Business : Cloud and license 84% 83% Hardware 8% 9% Services 8% 8% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, due to growth in our cloud and license business revenues and services business revenues, which were partially offset by a decline in our hardware business revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, was primarily attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support services. The constant currency increase in our services business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, was attributable to an increase in revenues for all of our primary services offerings. The constant currency decrease in our hardware business revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, was due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our growing cloud-based infrastructure technologies and the de-emphasis of our sales and marketing efforts for certain of our non-strategic hardware products and related support services. All three of our businesses revenues were adversely impacted during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and 2021 due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we expect these effects to be temporary, the impacts of COVID-19 for future periods are unknown. In constant currency, total revenues growth during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions was partially offset by a slight decline in total revenues growth in the EMEA region. 29 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher cloud services and license support expenses, which increased primarily due to higher infrastructure investments that were made to support the increase in our cloud and license business revenues; higher services expenses, which increased primarily due to higher external contractor expenses; and higher research and development expenses, which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by lower amortization of intangible assets and lower restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 , we recorded a $125 million gain on an operating asset sale, which was allocated as a benefit to most of our operating expense lines as presented per our condensed consolidated statement of operations during this period. During each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, we curtailed a number of variable expenditures across all of our lines of businesses and functions including employee travel expenses and marketing expenses, among others, primarily in response to COVID-19. We expect certain of these expenses may normalize in future periods provided global economic and health conditions improve . In constant currency, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to higher revenues and the aforementioned gain. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions and certain other expense and income items that affected our GAAP net income: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2021 2020 Cloud services and license support deferred revenues (1) $ $ 1 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 303 345 Acquisition related and other (3) 21 19 Restructuring (4) 38 174 Stock-based compensation, operating segments (5) 152 116 Stock-based compensation, R&D and G&A (5) 393 312 Income tax effects (6) (420 ) (336 ) $ 487 $ 631 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. ( 2 ) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2021, estimated future amortization related to intangible assets was as follows (in millions): Remainder of fiscal 2022 $ 834 Fiscal 2023 716 Fiscal 2024 473 Fiscal 2025 124 Fiscal 2026 24 Fiscal 2027 6 Thereafter 4 Total intangible assets, net $ 2,181 30 Table of Contents ( 3 ) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. ( 4 ) Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2022 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2022 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in managements discussion below under Restructuring Expenses, in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021. ( 5 ) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2021 2020 Cloud services and license support $ 40 $ 30 Hardware 3 3 Services 14 12 Sales and marketing 95 71 Stock-based compensation, operating segments 152 116 Research and development 344 276 General and administrative 49 36 Total stock-based compensation $ 545 $ 428 ( 6 ) For the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after excluding the tax effects of items within the table above such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain other acquisition related items, and for the first quarter of fiscal 2022, after excluding the net deferred tax effects associated with a previously recorded income tax benefit that resulted from a partial realignment of our legal entity structure, resulted in effective tax rates of 18.0% and 19.1%, respectively, instead of 8.4% and 13.3%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business engages in the sale and marketing of our applications and infrastructure technologies that are delivered through various deployment models and include: Oracle license support offerings; Oracle cloud services offerings; and Oracle cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses; are purchased by our customers at their option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, deploy, host, manage and support. Revenues for our cloud services are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 31 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Cloud and License Revenues : Americas (1) $ 4,582 6% 5% $ 4,321 EMEA 2,297 0% -3% 2,293 Asia Pacific 1,305 7% 6% 1,220 Total revenues (1) 8,184 4% 3% 7,834 Expenses : Cloud services and license support (2) 1,153 20% 19% 958 Sales and marketing (2) 1,626 0% -2% 1,633 Total expenses (2) 2,779 7% 6% 2,591 Total Margin $ 5,405 3% 2% $ 5,243 Total Margin % 66% 67% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 56% 55% EMEA 28% 29% Asia Pacific 16% 16% Revenues by Offerings : Cloud services and license support (1) $ 7,371 6% 5% $ 6,948 Cloud license and on-premise license 813 -8% -9% 886 Total revenues (1) $ 8,184 4% 3% $ 7,834 Cloud Services and License Support Revenues by Ecosystem : Applications cloud services and license support (1) $ 3,041 8% 7% $ 2,817 Infrastructure cloud services and license support (1) 4,330 5% 3% 4,131 Total cloud services and license support revenues (1) $ 7,371 6% 5% $ 6,948 (1) Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above for additional information. (2) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain expense allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support for which we delivered such cloud and support services during the periods presented. This increase in our first quarter of fiscal 2022 cloud and license business revenues was partially offset by a decline in EMEA license revenues during the fiscal 2022 period due to an exceptionally strong license result during the corresponding prior year period. The growth in our cloud and license business revenues was adversely impacted during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the impacts of COVID-19 for future periods are unknown. In constant currency, total revenue growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions was partially offset by a decline in total revenue growth in the EMEA region for this business during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. In constant currency, our total cloud and license business expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the corresponding prior year period, due to higher cloud services and license support expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, which were primarily attributable to higher technology infrastructure expenses and higher employee related expenses to support the increase in our cloud and license business revenues. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by lower sales and marketing expenses, which decreased primarily due to an allocation of the gain from the operating asset sale described above, partially offset by higher employee related expenses and higher marketing expenses. Our cloud services and license support expenses have 32 Table of Contents grown in recent periods and we expect this growth to accelerate during fiscal 2022 as we increase our existing data center capacity and establish data centers in new geographic locations in order to meet current and expected customer demand . Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 due to the increase in total revenues. Total margin as a percentage of revenues for this segment decreased marginally during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 in comparison to the prior year period due to expenses growth. Hardware Business Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware offerings. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and that are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty and related expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Hardware Revenues : Americas $ 372 -9% -10% $ 409 EMEA 232 5% 4% 220 Asia Pacific 159 -14% -15% 185 Total revenues 763 -6% -7% 814 Expenses : Hardware products and support (1) 238 0% -2% 239 Sales and marketing (1) 89 -9% -10% 98 Total expenses (1) 327 -3% -4% 337 Total Margin $ 436 -9% -10% $ 477 Total Margin % 57% 59% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 49% 50% EMEA 30% 27% Asia Pacific 21% 23% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain expense allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAPbased expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. 33 Table of Contents Our constant currency hardware revenues declined in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our growing cloud-based infrastructure technologies and the de-emphasis of our sales and marketing efforts for certain of our non-strategic hardware products and related support services, the net impact of which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods. Our hardware business revenues were also adversely impacted during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any such prospective impacts are unknown. Constant currency decreases in hardware revenue growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were partially offset by a constant currency increase in hardware revenue growth in the EMEA region during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 . Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to lower hardware product expenses, lower hardware support costs and lower sales and marketing costs, all of which aligned to lower hardware revenues. In constant currency, our hardware business total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 due to lower total revenues for this business. Services Business We offer services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Services Revenues : Americas $ 367 8% 7% $ 339 EMEA 255 13% 10% 225 Asia Pacific 159 2% 2% 156 Total revenues 781 8% 7% 720 Total Expenses (1) 609 4% 2% 585 Total Margin $ 172 28% 27% $ 135 Total Margin % 22% 19% % Revenues by Geography : Americas 47% 47% EMEA 33% 31% Asia Pacific 20% 22% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, due to revenue increases in each of our primary services offerings. Our services business revenues were adversely affected during each of the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 by the impacts of COVID-19, including the impacts of consulting project delays due to customer resource constraints and in-person meeting restrictions imposed by certain jurisdictions. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 48%, 47% and 5%, respectively, to the constant currency revenues growth for this business in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. In constant currency, total services expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher external contractor expenses. 34 Table of Contents In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, in each case due to higher total revenues for this business . Research and Development Expenses : Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Research and development (1) $ 1,340 2% 1% $ 1,313 Stock-based compensation 344 25% 25% 276 Total expenses $ 1,684 6% 5% $ 1,589 % of Total Revenues 18% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to increased headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses, partially offset by an allocation of the gain from the operating asset sale described above. General and Administrative Expenses : General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 General and administrative (1) $ 249 -4% -5% $ 259 Stock-based compensation 49 38% 38% 36 Total expenses $ 298 1% 0% $ 295 % of Total Revenues 3% 3% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, total general and administrative expenses were flat during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 as higher stock-based compensation expenses were offset by an allocation of the gain from an operating asset sale as described above. Amortization of Intangible Assets : Substantially all of our intangible assets were acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Developed technology $ 127 -19% -19% $ 158 Cloud services and license support agreements and related relationships 155 -6% -5% 164 Other 21 -6% -6% 23 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 303 -12% -12% $ 345 Amortization of intangible assets decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by a smaller amount of additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions. 35 Table of Contents Acquisition Related and Other Expenses : Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, certain business combination adjustments , including adjustments after the measurement period has ended , and cer tain other operating items, net. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 2 -6% -6% $ 2 Business combination adjustments, net 3 182% 181% 1 Other, net 16 -6% -6% 16 Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 21 4% 4% $ 19 On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased modestly during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher business combination adjustments, net. Restructuring Expenses : Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies and/or other strategic initiatives. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Restructuring expenses $ 38 -78% -78% $ 174 Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily related to our 2022 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2022 Restructuring Plan and the 2019 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. We may incur additional restructuring expenses in future periods due to the initiation of new restructuring plans or from changes in estimated costs associated with existing restructuring plans. The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2022 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued emphasis in developing, marketing and selling our cloud-based offerings. These initiatives impacted certain of our sales and marketing and research and development operations. Certain of the cost savings realized pursuant to our 2022 Restructuring Plan initiatives were offset by investments in resources and geographies that better address the development, marketing, sale and delivery of our cloud based offerings including investments in our second generation cloud infrastructure. Interest Expense : Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Interest expense $ 705 15% 15% $ 614 Interest expense increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $15.0 billion of senior notes in March 2021. 36 Table of Contents Non-Operating Expenses, net : Non-operating expenses, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income and expenses, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income and losses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Interest income $ 20 -37% -37% $ 31 Foreign currency losses, net (35 ) -31% -35% (50 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (47 ) 25% 25% (38 ) Other, net 21 -62% -61% 55 Total non-operating expenses, net $ (41 ) * * $ (2 ) * Not meaningful Our non-operating expenses, net increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to lower other income, net, which was primarily attributable to changes in market values associated with certain marketable equity securities that we held for certain employee benefit plans and classified as trading, and for which an equal and offsetting amount was recorded to our operating expenses in the same period; and due to higher losses associated with equity investments for which we follow the equity method of accounting; in each case during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Provision for Income Taxes : Our effective income tax rates for each of the periods presented were the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. Our provision for income taxes varied from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate for the periods presented primarily due to earnings in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, the Foreign Derived Intangible Income deduction and the tax effect of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2021 Actual Constant 2020 Provision for income taxes $ 224 -35% -36% $ 344 Effective tax rate 8.4% 13.3% Provision for income taxes decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, primarily due to an increase in tax benefits related to stock-based compensation partially offset by higher income before provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2021 Change May 31, 2021 Working capital $ 24,046 -23% $ 31,403 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 39,310 -16% $ 46,554 37 Table of Contents Working capital : The decrease in working capital as of August 31, 2021 in comparison to May 31, 2021 was primarily due to cash used for repurchases of our common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and cash proceeds from stock option exercises. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities : Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2021 in comparison to May 31, 2021 was primarily due to $8.0 billion of settled repurchases of our common stock, debt repayments, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. These cash outflows during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 were partially offset by certain cash inflows generated by our operations and from stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of August 31, 2021 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2021 balance sheet date. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2021 Change 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,391 -9% $ 5,953 Net cash used for investing activities $ (781 ) -92% $ (9,655 ) Net cash used for financing activities $ (11,468 ) 77% $ (6,493 ) Cash flows from operating activities : Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their license support agreements. Payments from customers for these license support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new licenses, cloud services, hardware offerings and other services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes, interest payments and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to certain cash unfavorable working capital changes, net, partially offset by higher net income, in each case in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 . Cash flows from investing activities : The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities, and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily resulting from a decrease in cash used for the purchases of marketable securities and other investments and an increase in cash proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures, in each case during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 38 Table of Contents Cash flows from financing activities : The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments, stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs . Net cash used for financing activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher stock repurchases, higher payments of dividends, higher net cash used for our employee stock program and higher debt repayments, in each case during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Free cash flow : To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2021 Change 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,325 17% $ 13,092 Capital expenditures (2,761 ) 71% (1,614 ) Free cash flow $ 12,564 9% $ 11,478 Net income $ 13,952 $ 10,249 Free cash flow as percent of net income 90% 112% Contractual Obligations : During the first quarter of fiscal 2022, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2021. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2018 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.0% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards and stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at August 31, 2021, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, all have exercise prices lower than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2021, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested, was 8.3%. 39 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.