Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends, including changes to our business as a result of our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially. When used in this report, the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates will, is designed to and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2010 and our other Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed by us in our fiscal year 2011, which runs from June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2011. Business Overview We are the worlds largest enterprise software company. As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we are also a leading provider of hardware systems products and services. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software, applications software and hardware systems, consisting primarily of computer server and storage products, which are designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. Our goal is to be the worlds most complete, open and integrated enterprise software and hardware company. We offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software and hardware solutions that are designed to improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organizations unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information and automate business processes at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to our software, hardware and services businesses are the foundation of our long-term strategic plan. We invest billions of dollars in research and development each year to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services. We also believe that an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy as it strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. We are organized into three businessessoftware, hardware systems and serviceswhich are further divided into seven operating segments. Each of these businesses and operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our three businesses and seven operating segments follows. Software Business Our software business, which represented 72% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis we expect that our software business total revenues generally will continue to increase 27 Table of Contents due to continued demand for our software products and software license updates and product support offerings, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we acquired certain software technologies, including Java, which is a global software development platform used in a wide range of computers, networks and devices. The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, and our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 27% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our new software license segments margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this segment are predominantly fixed in the short term. However, our new software license segments margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies that we have acquired. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented approximately 46% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 85%, and accounted for 77% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenues growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming prices, renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions result in the sale of software license updates and product support contracts, which add to our support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have 28 Table of Contents been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $25 million and $9 million for the three months ended August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Hardware Systems Business As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: (1) hardware systems products and (2) hardware systems support. Our hardware business represented 23% of our total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and we expect that it will continue to add a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results. We expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services or to develop new hardware products and services. To produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. One of our main goals is to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers we rely on and through our transition to a build-to-order process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. In addition, we are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new hardware systems support contracts sold in connection with the sales of new hardware products. Hardware Systems Products: Our hardware systems products consist primarily of computer server and storage product offerings and hardware-related software, including our Solaris operating system. We offer a wide range of server systems using our SPARC microprocessor. Our SPARC servers are differentiated by their size, cost, form factor or configuration (rack, blade or stand-alone systems) and customer environments that they target (general purpose or specialized systems). Our mid- and large-size servers are designed to offer greater performance and lower total cost of ownership than mainframe systems for business critical applications and for customers having more computationally intensive needs. Our SPARC servers run our Solaris operating system and are designed for the most demanding mission critical enterprise environments at any scale. We also offer a wide range of x86 servers differentiated by the same features as our SPARC servers. These x86 systems are substantially based upon microprocessor platforms from Intel Corporation and are also compatible with Solaris, Linux, Windows and other operating systems. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers data assets and consist of tape, disk and networking solutions for open systems and mainframe server environments. Prior to our acquisition of Sun, the majority of Suns hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. Although we plan to continue to sell our hardware products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have begun enhancing direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future than they do currently. Our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Sun. We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders and delays in our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large transactions could substantially affect the amount of hardware systems products revenues, expenses and operating margins that we report. 29 Table of Contents Hardware Systems Support: Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage products, including Solaris, and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. The growth of our hardware systems support revenues is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware products, the mix of hardware products purchased, and the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer base that renews its support contracts. All of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed through, and by the amortization of intangible assets resulting from, our acquisition of Sun. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisition of Sun to their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date by an aggregate of $61 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. This amount would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by Sun as a standalone entity. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the support periods. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. Our services business, which represented 14% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, has significantly lower margins than our software business and what we have recently achieved from our hardware business. Consulting: Our consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in enterprise architecture design and implementation; business/IT strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically segmentable from the products with which they relate and are performed after the customers purchase of the products. Our consulting revenues are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of our product revenues, in particular the new software license sales of our application products. To the extent we are able to grow our products revenues, in particular our software application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to eventually grow our consulting revenues. On Demand: On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our On Demand services offerings, primarily with additional Advanced Customer Services offerings, including staff augmentation and managed services, to architect, implement and manage customer IT environments. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. While we have grown the base of customers that purchase certain of our On Demand services through our organic growth and the acquisition of Sun, we continue to focus on managing our expenses to increase our margins and margins as a percentage of our revenues. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue growth, which historically has negatively impacted On Demand margins and could do so in the future. Education: The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our software and hardware products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our product revenues. Education revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions (including our acquisition of Sun), general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our customers information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. 30 Table of Contents Acquisitions An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Sun in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, among others. We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing debt facilities, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2010 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of Sun in our third quarter of fiscal 2010. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products (for acquisitions that were completed since the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2010) to the growth in new software license revenues, software license updates and product support revenues, hardware systems products revenues and hardware systems support revenues. We also are able to quantify the total incremental expenses associated with our hardware systems products and hardware systems support segments. The incremental contributions of our acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we intend to focus our efforts on renewing hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as software license updates and product support deferred revenues and hardware systems support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. Our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses are affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and hardware systems products segments) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2010, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.27 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (using 1.27 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.42 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 (using 1.42 as the month-end 32 Table of Contents average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010 using the May 31, 2010 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during these periods. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 3,904 46% 45% $ 2,671 EMEA (1) 2,381 45% 55% 1,642 Asia Pacific (2) 1,217 64% 55% 741 Total revenues 7,502 48% 49% 5,054 Total Operating Expenses 5,585 69% 69% 3,314 Total Operating Margin $ 1,917 10% 11% $ 1,740 Total Operating Margin % 26% 34% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 52% 53% EMEA 32% 32% Asia Pacific 16% 15% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 4,736 14% 15% $ 4,145 Hardware Systems 1,698 * * Services 1,068 18% 18% 909 Total revenues $ 7,502 48% 49% $ 5,054 % Revenues by Business: Software 63% 82% Hardware Systems 23% 0% Services 14% 18% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) Asia Pacific includes Japan * Not meaningful Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to a $1.7 billion revenue contribution from our new hardware systems business that resulted from our acquisition of Sun, an increase in our software business revenues resulting from growth in our new software licenses revenues and our software license updates and product support revenues and an increase in our services revenues resulting primarily from an increase in our On Demand revenues that resulted from our acquisition of Sun. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 50%, EMEA contributed 33% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to our total revenues growth. Excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was due to additional operating expenses incurred as a result of our acquisition of Sun, including increased expenses pertaining to hardware systems products sold and related hardware systems support offerings, additional employee related expenses including additional stock-based compensation, an increase in intangible asset amortization and increased restructuring expenses primarily as a result of our Sun Restructuring Plan. 33 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, our operating margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as the increase in total revenues exceeded the increase in total expenses. However, on a constant currency basis our operating margin as a percentage of revenues declined due to the post-combination contributions from our acquisition of Sun, which increased our total expenses at a faster rate than our total revenues. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other significant expense and income items: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2010 2009 Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges: Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) $ 25 $ 9 Hardware systems support deferred revenues (1) 61 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 603 431 Acquisition related and other (3)(5) 83 6 Restructuring (4) 129 48 Stock-based compensation (5) 129 84 Income tax effects (6) (253 ) (162 ) Total $ 777 $ 416 (1) In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $25 million and $9 million for the three months ended August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amount of $61 million for the three months ended August 31, 2010. Approximately $46 million, $19 million and $7 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2011, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of the aforementioned business combination accounting rules. In addition, approximately $87 million, $35 million and $11 million of estimated hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2011, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by Sun as an independent entity. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract values over the support renewal period. (2) Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2010, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2011 $ 1,740 Fiscal 2012 2,074 Fiscal 2013 1,705 Fiscal 2014 1,408 Fiscal 2015 1,058 Fiscal 2016 575 Thereafter 190 Total intangible assets subject to amortization 8,750 In-process research and development 374 Total intangible assets, net $ 9,124 34 Table of Contents (3) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement period has ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. (4) Substantially all restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 relate to employee severance, facility exit costs and contract termination costs in connection with our Sun Restructuring Plan and our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan. Additional information regarding these restructuring plans is provided in Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. (5) Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2010 2009 Sales and marketing $ 23 $ 16 Software license updates and product support 5 4 Hardware systems products 1 Hardware systems support 1 Services 4 3 Research and development 59 32 General and administrative 36 29 Subtotal 129 84 Acquisition related and other 1 Total stock-based compensation $ 130 $ 84 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (6) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the expense items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 24.7% and 28.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, which was consistent with that derived as per our condensed consolidated statement of operations. Software Business Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment. 35 Table of Contents New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 New Software License Revenues: Americas $ 658 33% 32% $ 495 EMEA 352 12% 18% 314 Asia Pacific 276 26% 19% 219 Total revenues 1,286 25% 25% 1,028 Expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 1,065 13% 14% 944 Stock-based compensation 22 41% 41% 16 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 204 -1% -1% 206 Total expenses 1,291 11% 14% 1,166 Total Margin $ (5 ) 96% 95% $ (138 ) Total Margin % 0% -13% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 48% EMEA 27% 31% Asia Pacific 22% 21% Revenues by Product: Database and middleware $ 937 32% 32% $ 711 Applications 349 10% 10% 317 Total new software license revenues $ 1,286 25% 25% $ 1,028 % Revenues by Product: Database and middleware 73% 69% Applications 27% 31% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Total new software license revenues increased by 25% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to growth across all major regions and product types and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 62%, EMEA contributed 21% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to our new software license revenues growth during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In constant currency, database and middleware revenues and applications revenues increased by 32% and 10%, respectively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, and 13% and 8%, respectively, over the trailing 4-quarters, primarily due to improved customer demand for our products, our sales forces execution and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, Sun contributed $150 million and other recent acquisitions contributed $10 million to the growth in our database and middleware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. 36 Table of Contents In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by 18% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and represented 40% of our new software license revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 in comparison to 42% in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total new software license expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to higher employee related and other operating expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun and higher variable compensation expenses resulting from higher revenues. New software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues increased at a faster rate than our expenses. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support segment include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 1,884 11% 10% $ 1,694 EMEA 1,105 7% 15% 1,032 Asia Pacific 461 18% 11% 391 Total revenues 3,450 11% 12% 3,117 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 303 36% 37% 222 Stock-based compensation 5 28% 28% 4 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 206 -3% -3% 213 Total expenses 514 17% 17% 439 Total Margin $ 2,936 10% 11% $ 2,678 Total Margin % 85% 86% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 55% 54% EMEA 32% 33% Asia Pacific 13% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as a result of new software licenses sold (with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts) during the trailing 4-quarter period, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal quarter and incremental revenues from recent acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 39% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 included incremental revenues of $75 million from Sun and $22 million from our other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed support obligations to 37 Table of Contents their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $25 million and $9 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration. On a constant currency basis, total software license updates and product support expenses increased primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits expenses resulting from increased headcount, primarily Sun-related, and an increase in bad debt expenses. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin increased due to an increase in our revenues, while margin as a percentage of total revenues declined slightly as our total expenses increased at a faster rate than our total revenues. Hardware Systems Business As a result of our acquisition of Sun in January 2010, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support. Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server and storage products. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consist of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware products, and amortization of intangible assets. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Hardware Systems Products Revenues: Americas $ 543 * * $ EMEA 338 * * Asia Pacific 198 * * Total revenues 1,079 * * Expenses: Hardware systems products (1) 556 * * Sales and marketing (1) 245 * * Stock-based compensation 2 * * Amortization of intangible assets (2) 101 * * Total expenses 904 * * Total Margin $ 175 * * $ Total Margin % 16% * % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% * EMEA 31% * Asia Pacific 18% * 38 Table of Contents (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from the Sun acquisition. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Hardware Systems Support Revenues: Americas $ 252 * * $ EMEA 259 * * Asia Pacific 108 * * Total revenues 619 * * Expenses: Hardware systems support (1) 300 * * Stock-based compensation 1 * * Amortization of intangible assets (2) 74 * * Total expenses 375 * * Total Margin $ 244 * * $ Total Margin % 39% * % Revenues by Geography: Americas 41% * EMEA 42% * Asia Pacific 17% * (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful Our hardware systems support revenues were attributable to hardware systems support contracts that we assumed through our acquisition of Sun and, to a lesser extent, support contracts that were purchased or renewed by customers in the post-combination period. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $61 million that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as an independent entity were not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the future support periods. 39 Table of Contents Services Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education. Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Consulting Revenues: Americas $ 371 3% 3% $ 360 EMEA 186 -15% -10% 218 Asia Pacific 109 29% 21% 85 Total revenues 666 0% 1% 663 Expenses: Services (1) 564 -5% -4% 593 Stock-based compensation 2 -12% -12% 2 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 10 7% 7% 9 Total expenses 576 -5% -3% 604 Total Margin $ 90 53% 43% $ 59 Total Margin % 14% 9% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 56% 54% EMEA 28% 33% Asia Pacific 16% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased modestly in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increase in consulting revenue contributions related to the Sun acquisition, which were partially offset by weaker demand for consulting services in the EMEA region. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses decreased primarily due to a reduction in employee related expenses resulting from reduced headcount, which were partially offset by an increase in third-party contractor expenses. On a constant currency basis, consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due primarily to decreases in our expenses. 40 Table of Contents On Demand: On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for customers that are delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers, or physically on-site at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. As a result of our acquisition of Sun in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we increased the volume and breadth of our Advanced Customer Services offerings, including onsite and remote operations management, hardware systems expert services, and packaged offerings that support the installation and optimization of Sun systems. The cost of providing On Demand services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 On Demand Revenues: Americas $ 161 76% 74% $ 91 EMEA 116 101% 116% 58 Asia Pacific 44 44% 36% 31 Total revenues 321 78% 80% 180 Expenses: Services (1) 259 103% 104% 128 Stock-based compensation 2 23% 23% 1 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 8 128% 128% 3 Total expenses 269 104% 105% 132 Total Margin $ 52 9% 10% $ 48 Total Margin % 16% 27% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 50% 51% EMEA 36% 32% Asia Pacific 14% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in our On Demand revenues was primarily due to revenue contributions from Sun and, to a lesser extent, increased revenues from our legacy Advanced Customer Services and legacy Oracle On Demand offerings. On a constant currency basis, On Demand expenses increased primarily due to additional employee related expenses associated with the acquisition of Sun and higher third-party contractor expenses that supported increases in our revenues. On a constant currency basis, On Demand margin increased and margin as a percentage of revenues declined during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to the post-combination contributions from our acquisition of Sun, which increased our total margin but also increased our total expenses growth at a faster rate than our total revenues growth. 41 Table of Contents Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Education Revenues: Americas $ 36 23% 22% $ 30 EMEA 25 24% 32% 20 Asia Pacific 20 26% 19% 16 Total revenues 81 24% 24% 66 Expenses: Services 69 17% 19% 58 Total expenses 69 17% 19% 58 Total Margin $ 12 79% 64% $ 8 Total Margin % 15% 11% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 45% 45% EMEA 30% 30% Asia Pacific 25% 25% On a constant currency basis, education revenues and expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to Sun. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 42%, EMEA contributed 37% and Asia Pacific contributed 21% to the overall increase in education revenues. On a constant currency basis, education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as a result of our revenues increasing at a rate faster than our expenses. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Research and development (1) $ 1,044 66% 66% $ 628 Stock-based compensation 59 82% 82% 32 Total expenses $ 1,103 67% 67% $ 660 % of Total Revenues 15% 13% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased expenses from Sun, including additional employee related expenses such as salaries, benefits and stock based compensation from increased headcount, and to a lesser extent, increased expenses related to facility and other infrastructure costs. 42 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 General and administrative (1) $ 236 37% 37% $ 172 Stock-based compensation 36 28% 28% 29 Total expenses $ 272 36% 36% $ 201 % of Total Revenues 4% 4% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to additional employee related expenses resulting from Sun. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 141 1% 1% $ 139 Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships 29 * * Developed technology 240 34% 34% 179 Core technology 78 20% 20% 65 Customer relationships 98 151% 151% 39 Trademarks 17 89% 89% 9 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 603 40% 40% $ 431 * Not meaningful Amortization of intangible assets increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2010, including those from our acquisition of Sun. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement periods have ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 49 1,564% 1,608% $ 3 Stock-based compensation 1 * * Professional fees and other, net 31 1,335% 1,063% 3 Business combination adjustments, net 2 * * Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 83 1,356% 1,095% $ 6 * Not meaningful 43 Table of Contents On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to higher transitional employee related and professional services expenses resulting from our acquisition of Sun. Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our Oracle-based and acquired company restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Restructuring expenses $ 129 168% 176% $ 48 Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily related to our Sun Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to better align our cost structure as a result of our acquisition of Sun. We also incurred expenses associated with the Oracle Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan, and other Oracle-based plans which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the Sun Restructuring Plan are approximately $661 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as the costs are recognized. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Interest Expense: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Interest expense $ 196 9% 9% $ 179 Interest expense increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $3.25 billion of senior notes in July 2010, and was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense associated with the maturity and repayment of other borrowings, primarily $1.0 billion of floating rate notes in May 2010. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Interest income $ 34 -1% 0% $ 35 Foreign currency gains (losses), net 49 367% 385% (19 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (26 ) -6% -4% (24 ) Other income, net 17 72% 71% 9 Total non-operating income, net $ 74 * * $ 1 * Not meaningful Non-operating income, net increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of net foreign currency transaction gains of $49 million in comparison to net foreign currency transaction losses of $19 million in the corresponding prior year period. 44 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Provision for income taxes $ 443 1% 2% $ 438 Effective tax rate 24.7% 28.0% Provision for income taxes increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due substantially to higher income before tax and certain of our worldwide income being earned in higher tax rate jurisdictions, offset by changes in tax law, settlements and increased availability of tax credits on certain deemed repatriated earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2010 Change May 31, 2010 Working capital $ 16,464 34% $ 12,313 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 23,637 28% $ 18,469 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of August 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2010 was primarily due to our issuance of $3.25 billion of long-term, senior notes in July 2010 and the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, repurchases of our common stock, and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2010 was due to the issuance of $3.25 billion of senior notes in July 2010 and an increase in cash generated from our operating activities. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $19.2 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 31, 2010. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased as of August 31, 2010 relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2010. Our increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was partially offset by cash used for acquisitions, the repurchases of our common stock, the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders and the repayment of commercial paper notes. Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 45 days at August 31, 2010 compared with 53 days at May 31, 2010. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to fair value. Our decline in days sales outstanding is 45 Table of Contents primarily due to the collection, in our first quarter of fiscal 2011, of large license and support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2010. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 3,817 2% $ 3,738 Cash used for investing activities $ (3,916 ) 314% $ (947 ) Cash provided by financing activities $ 1,960 -53% $ 4,209 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales, sales of hardware systems products and hardware systems support arrangements and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware systems products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased net income and cash favorable working capital movements including improved collections of accounts receivable (days sales outstanding decreased to 45 days as of August 31, 2010 in comparison to 46 days as of August 31, 2009), partially offset by an increase in cash used to pay accrued compensation liabilities such as commissions and bonuses, and an increase in cash used to pay income tax related liabilities, in each case compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities), an increase in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and an increase in capital expenditures. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 decreased primarily due to a reduction in the amount of long-term senior notes that we issued ($3.25 billion of long-term senior notes issued) in comparison to the prior year period ($4.5 billion of long-term senior notes issued) and an increase in repayments of commercial paper notes. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 8,760 0% $ 8,753 Capital expenditures (1) (293 ) 12% (261 ) Free cash flow $ 8,467 0% $ 8,492 Net income $ 6,363 $ 5,640 Free cash flow as a percent of net income 133% 151% 46 Table of Contents (1) Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products and service offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, $97 million and $135 million, respectively, or approximately 8% and 13%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division. Recent Financing Activities Commercial Paper Notes : During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we repaid $881 million of commercial paper notes which were issued in fiscal 2010 pursuant to our commercial paper program, which allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. As of August 31, 2010, we had no commercial paper notes outstanding ($881 million outstanding as of May 31, 2010). Additional details of our various debt facilities and obligations are included in the Contractual Obligations section below, in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2010. Senior Notes : In July 2010, we issued $3.25 billion of fixed rate senior notes comprised of $1.0 billion of 3.875% notes due July 2020 and $2.25 billion of 5.375% notes due July 2040. We issued these senior notes in order to repay indebtedness, including repayment of our 5.00% senior notes that are due January 2011 ($2.2 billion principal amount outstanding as of August 31, 2010), for general corporate purposes, for future acquisitions and in order to replenish cash used to repay $1.0 billion of the floating rate senior notes that matured in May 2010. Additional details regarding these senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Contractual Obligations: The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in preparing this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of August 31, 2010: Year Ending May 31, (Dollars in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 17,000 $ 2,250 $ $ 1,250 $ $ 1,500 $ 2,000 $ 10,000 Capital leases (2) 11 11 Interest payments on long-term debt (1) 11,351 553 738 738 676 665 654 7,327 Operating leases (3) 1,665 380 399 277 168 116 145 180 Purchase obligations and other (4) 634 563 35 22 8 3 3 Total contractual obligations $ 30,661 $ 3,757 $ 1,172 $ 2,287 $ 852 $ 2,284 $ 2,802 $ 17,507 47 Table of Contents (1) Our borrowings (excluding capital leases) consist of the following as of August 31, 2010: Principal Balance 5.00% senior notes due January 2011, net of discount of $1 $ 2,249 4.95% senior notes due April 2013 1,250 3.75% senior notes due July 2014, including fair value adjustment of $79 1,579 5.25% senior notes due January 2016, net of discount of $6 1,994 5.75% senior notes due April 2018, net of discount of $1 2,499 5.00% senior notes due July 2019, net of discount of $6 1,744 3.875% senior notes due July 2020, net of discount of $2 998 6.50% senior notes due April 2038, net of discount of $2 1,248 6.125% senior notes due July 2039, net of discount of $8 1,242 5.375% senior notes due July 2040, net of discount of $26 2,224 Total borrowings $ 17,027 We have entered into interest rate swap agreements related to our July 2014 senior notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with these senior notes so that the interest obligations effectively became variable pursuant to a LIBOR-based index. Interest payments on borrowings presented in the contractual obligations table above have been estimated using an interest rate of 1.44%, which represented our effective interest rate as of August 31, 2010 after consideration of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements, and are subject to change in future periods. The changes in fair value of our debt associated with the interest rate risk that we are hedging pursuant to these agreements are included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet and have been included in the above table of borrowings. (2) Represents remaining payments under capital leases, substantially all of which were assumed from our acquisitions. (3) Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $369 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet at August 31, 2010. (4) Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. We utilize several external manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our hardware products and to perform final assembly and test of finished hardware products. We also obtain individual components for our hardware products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in the amount presented in the above contractual obligations table. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods that are not related to our external manufacturers and certain other suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in this amount as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. As of August 31, 2010, we have $2.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $79 million of these liabilities (these amounts have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of when they might be settled). Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2011. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2011. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 48 Table of Contents Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees. The restricted stock-based awards included in the table presented below were assumed as a result of our acquisitions. We recognize that options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2007 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Some of the outstanding options, which generally have a 10 year exercise period, have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. At August 31, 2010, 5.6% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2010, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock option and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 8.5%. 49 Table of Contents The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants of up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option and restricted stock-based award activity from June 1, 2007 through August 31, 2010 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at May 31, 2007 434 Options granted 291 Options and restricted stock-based awards assumed 67 Options exercised and restricted stock-based awards vested (285 ) Forfeitures, cancellations and other, net (79 ) Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at August 31, 2010 428 Average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures 67 Average annualized stock repurchases (113 ) Shares outstanding at August 31, 2010 5,025 Basic weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through August 31, 2010 5,069 Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at August 31, 2010 8.5% In the money options and total restricted stock-based awards outstanding (based on the closing price of our common stock on the last trading day of our fiscal period presented) as a percent of shares outstanding at August 31, 2010 8.0% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through August 31, 2010 1.3% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2007 through August 31, 2010 -0.9% Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report. During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we made our annual grant of stock options and certain other stock option grants and we assumed certain restricted stock-based awards totaling 89 million shares, which were partially offset by forfeitures of 7 million shares. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report.