Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Business Overview Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environmentsapplications, platform and infrastructure. Our products are delivered to over 400,000 worldwide customers through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models including on-premise, cloud-based or hybrid that enable customer choice and that best meet customer IT needs. Our Oracle Cloud offerings provide a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of applications, platform, compute, storage and networking services in all three primary layers of the cloud: Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Our on-premise IT offerings include Oracle Applications, Oracle Database and Oracle Fusion Middleware software, among others; hardware products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage and industry-specific products, among others; and related support and services. We provide our cloud and on-premise offerings to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best suit customer needs. Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and to be secure, standards-based and reliable. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in their global data centers and on-premise IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by purchasing and renewing Oracle support offerings for their on-premise deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us. As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of their IT instances are deployed using the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT instances are deployed using Oracle on-premise offerings, with both instances designed with capabilities to be managed as a single instance. Our Oracle Cloud at Customer program provides another deployment option for customers to utilize the Oracle Cloud Machine and Oracle Database Exadata Cloud Machine to bring certain Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings to a customers on-premise IT environment to meet data sovereignty, data residency, data protection 24 Table of Contents and regulatory business policy requirements, among others, while benefiting from the many advantages of a cloud service. A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads. We expect these trends to continue. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better addresses customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models. We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. We have three businesses: cloud and on-premise software; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. Our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officers and Chief Technology Officer, view the operating results of our three businesses and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced in recent periods. As a result, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we updated our operating segments. The discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations presented below provides the current view that is utilized by our CODMs to evaluate performance and determine resource allocations and the prior period results presented below were recast to conform to the current periods presentation. In addition to the discussion below, Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our businesses and operating segments, including the recasting of our segments financial information from prior periods to conform to the current years presentation. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software line of business, which represented 80% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and on-premise software offerings. Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based, or hybrid IT infrastructure for a stated period. The majority of our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS arrangements have an average duration of approximately three years and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for on-premise and other IT environments. Our new software license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and the timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period. New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software 25 Table of Contents license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered. Our cloud SaaS, cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues and new software licenses revenues are affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings, our acquisitions, our ability to deliver and renew our cloud contracts with our existing customers and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, which represented 16% and 11% our total consolidated revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. This emphasis has affected the growth of our new software licenses revenues and, to a lesser extent, has also affected the growth of our software license updates and product support revenues. We expect these trends will continue with the mix of this business revenues continuing to shift toward cloud-based services. Our software license updates and product support revenues growth is primarily influenced by four factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts; (2) the pricing of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses; (3) the pricing of new software licenses sold; and (4) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they acquire on-premise new software licenses and renew their software license updates and product support contracts when eligible in order to benefit from Oracles research and development investments that are utilized as a part of unspecified periodic software updates that may be released and that customers with current software support contracts are entitled to. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and on-premise software revenues generally will continue to increase due to: expected growth in our cloud SaaS offerings and our cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings; continued demand for our on-premise software products and related software support, including the high percentage of customers that purchase and renew their software license updates and product support contracts; and contributions from our acquisitions. We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services. Our cloud and on-premise software business margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. Hardware Business Our hardware business, which represented 11% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and also include related hardware support. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered. 26 Table of Contents We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and on-premise software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by: our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions; our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings such as PaaS and IaaS; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; certain of our acquisitions; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. Services Business Our services business helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services; customer demand for our cloud and on-premise software and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; our strategic emphasis on growing our cloud revenues; certain of our acquisitions; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers IT departments; and tighter controls over discretionary spending. Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies, including NetSuite Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund any future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our 27 Table of Contents more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Revenue Recognition; Business Combinations; Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Legal and Other Contingencies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Results of Operations Impacts of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017 was impacted by our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of NetSuite Inc. during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in certain of our businesses revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons may not be separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons: any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our on-premise software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, and we strive to renew cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts, the amounts shown as cloud and on-premise software deferred revenues in our Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. In each fiscal year, 28 Table of Contents our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses, in particular, our cloud and on-premise software business and hardware business, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businessescloud and on-premise software, hardware and serviceswhich are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting . The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud and on-premise software contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of these items and Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating income, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our businesses including such items and/or it is impractical to do so. Refer to Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision of income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2017, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2017 and 2016, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.20 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 (using 1.20 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.11 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 (using 1.11 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 using the May 31, 2017 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 29 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 5,173 7% 7% $ 4,817 EMEA (1) 2,539 5% 2% 2,413 Asia Pacific (2) 1,475 8% 8% 1,365 Total revenues 9,187 7% 6% 8,595 Total Operating Expenses 6,366 7% 6% 5,954 Total Operating Margin $ 2,821 7% 6% $ 2,641 Total Operating Margin % 31% 31% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 56% 56% EMEA 28% 28% Asia Pacific 16% 16% Total Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software $ 7,384 9% 8% $ 6,791 Hardware 943 -5% -6% 996 Services 860 6% 5% 808 Total revenues $ 9,187 7% 6% $ 8,595 % Revenues by Business: Cloud and on-premise software 81% 79% Hardware 10% 12% Services 9% 9% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2) The Asia Pacific region includes Japan Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues and services revenues, partially offset by a decrease in our hardware revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and on-premise software revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was attributable to growth in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, growth in our software license updates and product support revenues, and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions, and was partially offset by a decrease in our new software licenses revenues. The constant currency increase in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to our recent acquisitions. The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to reductions in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues as we continued to place emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies. In constant currency, the Americas region contributed 67%, the EMEA region contributed 11% and the Asia Pacific region contributed 22% to the growth in our total revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the prior year period due to higher cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues; higher sales and marketing expenses, which were primarily attributable to increased headcount in our cloud and on-premise software business; increased stock-based compensation expenses; and higher intangible asset amortization due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of NetSuite and other recently acquired companies. These constant currency expense increases in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset by lower hardware product costs and lower employee related expenses for our hardware business due to lower hardware 30 Table of Contents revenues; and lower software support costs due primarily to lower headcount; each in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, due to the increase in our total revenues, and our total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was flat as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as certain other expense and income items that (increased) or reduced our GAAP net income: Three Months Ended August 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 Cloud and on-premise software deferred revenues (1) $ 25 $ 18 Acquired deferred sales commissions amortization (2) (11 ) Amortization of intangible assets (3) 411 311 Acquisition related and other (4)(6) 12 14 Restructuring (5) 124 99 Stock-based compensation, operating segments (6) 124 86 Stock-based compensation, R&D and G&A (6) 278 233 Income tax effects (7) (512 ) (258 ) $ 451 $ 503 (1) In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS subscription obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS, revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts values over the respective contracts renewal periods. (2) Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. (3) Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of August 31, 2017, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of fiscal 2018 $ 1,179 Fiscal 2019 1,408 Fiscal 2020 1,207 Fiscal 2021 1,021 Fiscal 2022 918 Fiscal 2023 567 Thereafter 886 Total intangible assets, net $ 7,186 (4) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 31 Table of Contents (5) Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in the discussion below under Restructuring Expenses, Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. (6) Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended August 31, 2017 2016 Cloud SaaS $ 9 $ 5 Cloud PaaS and IaaS 2 1 Software license updates and product support 7 6 Hardware 3 3 Services 14 8 Sales and marketing 89 63 Stock-based compensation, operating segments 124 86 Research and development 234 195 General and administrative 44 38 Acquisition related and other 1 Total stock-based compensation $ 403 $ 319 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. (7) The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in effective tax rates of 25.0% and 25.5%, respectively, instead of 14.5% and 22.8%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects for stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Cloud and On-Premise Software Business Our cloud and on-premise software business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings and the licensing of our software for on-premise and other IT environments with the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts. Our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings are generally subscription based and generally recognized as revenues over the subscription period. New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within on-premise and other IT environments and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to on-premise new software licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and on-premise software business are included in cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses, software license updates and product support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud SaaS, PaaS, IaaS and software support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and software offerings, and marketing program costs. 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Cloud and On-Premise Software Revenues: Americas (1) $ 4,277 10% 10% $ 3,895 EMEA (1) 2,020 6% 3% 1,903 Asia Pacific (1) 1,112 10% 10% 1,011 Total revenues (1) 7,409 9% 8% 6,809 Expenses: Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS (2) 580 45% 44% 401 Software license updates and product support (2) 240 -6% -7% 257 Sales and marketing (2) 1,684 6% 4% 1,596 Total expenses (2) 2,504 11% 10% 2,254 Total Margin $ 4,905 8% 7% $ 4,555 Total Margin % 66% 67% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 58% 57% EMEA 27% 28% Asia Pacific 15% 15% Revenues by Offerings: Cloud software as a service (1) $ 1,089 62% 61% $ 674 Cloud platform as a service and infrastructure as a service (1) 403 29% 28% 312 New software licenses 966 -6% -7% 1,030 Software license updates and product support (1) 4,951 3% 2% 4,793 Total cloud and on-premise software revenues (1) $ 7,409 9% 8% $ 6,809 % Revenues by Offerings: Cloud software as a service (1) 15% 10% Cloud platform as a service and infrastructure as a service (1) 5% 5% New software licenses 13% 15% Software license updates and product support (1) 67% 70% (1) Includes cloud and on-premise software revenue adjustments related to certain cloud and software support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above for additional information. (2) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and on-premise software business increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to growth in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, growth in our software license updates and product support revenues and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of NetSuite. These increases in revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset by decreases in our new software licenses revenues. The increases in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues and decreases in our new software licenses revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the continued strategic emphasis we placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud offerings and we expect these revenue trends will continue. The increase in our first quarter of fiscal 2018 software license updates and product support revenues was a result of substantially all customers electing to purchase software support contracts in conjunction with their purchase of new software licenses, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. During the first quarter 33 Table of Contents of fiscal 2018, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed constant currency regional growth of 70%, 11% and 19%, respectively. In constant currency, total cloud and on-premise software expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and technology infrastructure expenses that were incurred to support the related cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues increases; and higher sales and marketing expenses resulting from increased headcount. These expense increases were partially offset by lower software license updates and product support expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to lower employee related expenses resulting from lower headcount. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud software and on-premise software segments total margin increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in revenues. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as our total expenses grew at a faster rate than our total revenues for this business. Hardware Business Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer server, storage, and industry-specific hardware products for on-premise IT environments that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the services are delivered over the contractual term. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Hardware Revenues: Americas $ 485 -8% -8% $ 527 EMEA 271 -1% -4% 274 Asia Pacific 187 -4% -4% 195 Total revenues 943 -5% -6% 996 Expenses: Hardware products and support (1) 366 -4% -5% 381 Sales and marketing (1) 170 -15% -16% 203 Total expenses (1) 536 -8% -9% 584 Total Margin $ 407 -1% -2% $ 412 Total Margin % 43% 41% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 53% EMEA 29% 28% Asia Pacific 20% 19% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information above. 34 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, due to our continued emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of most of our on-premise hardware product lines during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and also impacted the volume of customers that purchase hardware support contracts. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware products expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, due primarily to lower hardware products costs and lower employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues. In constant currency, total margin for our hardware segment decreased on a constant currency basis in comparison to the corresponding prior year period primarily due to the decrease in our total revenues for this segment. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues increased for our hardware segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to lower expenses. Services Business We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Services Revenues: Americas $ 435 5% 5% $ 413 EMEA 248 6% 3% 236 Asia Pacific 177 11% 12% 159 Total revenues 860 6% 6% 808 Total Expenses (1) 665 0% -1% 665 Total Margin $ 195 37% 38% $ 143 Total Margin % 23% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 51% EMEA 29% 29% Asia Pacific 20% 20% (1) Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 due to constant currency increases in our consulting revenues, which were primarily attributable to our recent acquisitions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed constant currency regional growth of 37%, 17% and 46%, respectively. In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings, primarily attributable to higher consulting expense contributions from our recent acquisitions. These constant currency expense increases during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset due to a $30 million charge recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 which increased our expenses in the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, total services margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to the increase in 35 Table of Contents revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the $30 million charge that was recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Research and development (1) $ 1,340 1% 0% $ 1,325 Stock-based compensation 234 20% 20% 195 Total expenses $ 1,574 4% 3% $ 1,520 % of Total Revenues 17% 17% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period primarily due to higher stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 General and administrative (1) $ 276 0% -1% $ 277 Stock-based compensation 44 16% 16% 38 Total expenses $ 320 2% 1% $ 315 % of Total Revenues 3% 4% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period due primarily to increased employee related expenses associated with higher headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower professional services expenses that were primarily legal related. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets are acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Developed technology $ 190 40% 40% $ 136 SaaS, PaaS and IaaS agreements and related relationships 151 140% 140% 63 Software support agreements and related relationships 31 -3% -3% 32 Other 39 -51% -51% 80 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 411 32% 32% $ 311 36 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of NetSuite. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, and certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those restricted stock-based awards and stock options. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 9 15% 12% $ 8 Stock-based compensation 1 * * Professional fees and other, net 3 -33% -33% 5 Business combination adjustments, net (1 ) -256% -239% 1 Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 12 -17% -17% $ 14 * Not meaningful On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower professional fees and the favorable impacts of business combination adjustments. Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Restructuring expenses $ 124 25% 22% $ 99 Restructuring expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2017 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan in to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan were approximately $475 million as of August 31, 2017 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2018. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2017 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued move toward developing, marketing and selling our cloud-based offerings. These initiatives impacted certain of our sales and marketing and research and development operations that supported our on-premise business. Cost savings that are expected to be realized pursuant to our 2017 Restructuring Plan initiatives are primarily expected to be offset by investments in resources and geographies that best address the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based offerings as customer preferences pivot to the Oracle Cloud. 37 Table of Contents Interest Expense: Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Interest expense $ 469 13% 13% $ 416 Interest expense increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $14.0 billion of senior notes in July 2016. This increase in interest expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes in July 2017. Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Interest income $ 257 45% 45% $ 177 Foreign currency losses, net (4 ) -65% -70% (13 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (47 ) 32% 32% (35 ) Other income (loss), net 27 37% 37% 19 Total non-operating income, net $ 233 57% 57% $ 148 On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to higher interest income resulting from higher cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances and higher interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. Three Months Ended August 31, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2017 Actual Constant 2016 Provision for income taxes $ 375 -31% -31% $ 541 Effective tax rate 14.5% 22.8% Provision for income taxes in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 in substantial part to the favorable impact of excess tax benefits recognized on stock-based compensation expense and a favorable change in jurisdictional mix of our earnings recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. This favorable impact was partially offset by higher income before provision for income tax during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. 38 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) August 31, 2017 Change May 31, 2017 Working capital $ 53,109 6% $ 50,337 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 66,897 1% $ 66,078 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of August 31, 2017 in comparison to May 31, 2017 was primarily due to the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and proceeds from stock option exercises. These favorable working capital movements were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at August 31, 2017 in comparison to May 31, 2017 was primarily due to cash inflows generated by our operations and cash inflows from stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and were partially offset by certain cash outflows, primarily the repayment of $4.8 billion of borrowings, repurchases of our common stock, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $58.3 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of August 31, 2017, a significant portion of which was generated from the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries that we consider as indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations outside the United States. These undistributed earnings that are considered as indefinitely reinvested overseas would be subject to U.S. income tax if repatriated to the United States. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies during the first quarter fiscal 2018, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased on a net basis as of August 31, 2017 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2017 balance sheet date. Days sales outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 35 days at August 31, 2017 compared with 44 days at May 31, 2017. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the impact of any revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud and on-premise software obligations to fair value. Three Months Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2017 Change 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,566 12% $ 5,875 Net cash used for investing activities $ (1,818 ) -65% $ (5,203 ) Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities $ (5,441 ) 171% $ 7,712 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings, hardware offerings and services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. 39 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to higher net income during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to our acquisitions, the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable debt securities and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a decrease in cash used to purchase marketable securities and other investments, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities and a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. Net cash used in financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.4 billion in comparison to net cash provided by financing activities of $7.7 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. The change in financing activities cash flows in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period was primarily related to debt related cash flows for which we had debt repayments of $4.8 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 in comparison to $10.2 billion of cash inflows form borrowings, net of repayments, in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. These unfavorable financing cash flows during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period were partially offset by higher cash inflows from stock option exercises and lower cash outflows related to stock repurchases, each during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended August 31, (Dollars in millions) 2017 Change 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,817 8% $ 13,679 Capital expenditures (2,195 ) 111% (1,042 ) Free cash flow $ 12,622 0% $ 12,637 Net income $ 9,713 $ 8,986 Free cash flow as percent of net income 130% 141% Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $191 million and $107 million, respectively, or approximately 20% and 10%, respectively, of our new software licenses revenues in the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. Contractual Obligations: During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In 40 Table of Contents addition, we believe that we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2014 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at August 31, 2017, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, 14.9% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we have recently reduced the level of our stock repurchases and we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At August 31, 2017, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.8%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.