Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We begin Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends, including changes to our business as a result of our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to historical information, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially. When used in this report, the words will, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009 and our other Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed by us in our fiscal year 2010, which runs from June 1, 2009 to May 31, 2010. Business Overview We are the worlds largest enterprise software company. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. On January 26, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Sun, a provider of hardware systems, software and services, for $7.3 billion. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support. Our acquisition of Sun also expanded our portfolio of software and services offerings. We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to products and services that we offer as part of our software, hardware systems and services businesses provide the foundation for our long-term strategic plan. We invest billions of dollars in research and development each year to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services. Our internally developed offerings have been enhanced by our acquisitions. We are organized into three businessessoftware, hardware systems and serviceswhich are further divided into seven operating segments. Each of these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our three businesses and seven operating segments follows. Software Business Our software business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. On a constant currency basis we expect that our software business revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our products, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license update and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development. New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we acquired certain software technologies, including Java, which is a global software development platform used in a wide range of computers, networks and devices. 34 Table of Contents The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. The substantial majority of our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 30% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our new software license margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over the corresponding quarterly periods and because our costs are predominantly fixed in the short term for this operating segment. However, our new software license margins have been, and will continue to be, affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies that we have acquired, including Sun. Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented approximately 53% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins over the trailing 4-quarters were 85%, and accounted for 83% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to support obligations assumed in business acquisitions (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons: substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when eligible for renewal; substantially all of our customers purchase license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenues growth was flat or declined modestly, software license updates and product support revenues would most likely continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions add to our support contract base; and our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported. We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business combinations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $26 million and $51 million for the three months ended February 28, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $49 million and $222 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2010 and 2009, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. 35 Table of Contents Hardware Systems Business As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support. Our hardware systems business will add a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results. We expect our hardware systems business to have lower profit margins as a percentage of revenues than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware systems products or develop new hardware systems products. To produce our hardware systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. Our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. For all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. We distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. One of our main goals is to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers we rely on and through our transition to a build-to-order process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. In addition, we are focusing on identifying hardware systems support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues and to increase the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sales of new hardware systems products. Hardware Systems Products: Our hardware systems products consist primarily of computer server and storage product offerings. Most of our computer servers are based on our SPARC family of microprocessors and on Intel Xeon microprocessors. Our servers range from high performance computing servers to cost efficient, entry-level servers, and run with our Solaris Operating System, Linux and certain other operating systems environments. Our storage products are designed to securely manage, protect, archive and restore customers data assets and consist of tape, disk and networking solutions for open systems and mainframe server environments. Prior to our acquisition of Sun, many of our hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. We have begun transitioning to a more direct sales model and intend that, at the completion of the transition, our direct sales force will sell more of our hardware systems products, though we plan to continue to sell our products to certain customer segments through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. We expect that the proportion of hardware systems products revenues sold by our own sales force will increase over time, which we believe will improve our operating margins for this segment. Our operating margins for our hardware systems products segment have been and will be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Sun. In addition, business combination accounting rules require us to record acquired inventories at fair value, which generally will result in an unfavorable impact to our expenses and operating margins as we sell these acquired inventories to customers in the post-combination period. We have limited experience in predicting our quarterly hardware systems products revenues. The timing of customer orders or deliveries with respect to a few large transactions could substantially affect the amount of quarterly hardware systems products revenues and operating margins that we report. Hardware Systems Support: Customers that purchase our hardware systems products may also elect to purchase our hardware systems support offerings. Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Typically, our hardware systems support contract arrangements are invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the support period and are one year in duration. The growth of our hardware systems support revenues is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume of purchases of hardware systems products, the mix of hardware systems products purchased, and the percentage of our hardware systems support contract customer 36 Table of Contents base that renews its support contracts. All of these factors are heavily influenced by our customers decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware systems infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available. Our hardware systems support margins have been and will be affected by fair value adjustments relating to hardware systems support obligations assumed through, and by the amortization of intangible assets resulting from, our acquisition of Sun. As required by business combination accounting rules, we recorded adjustments to reduce our hardware systems support revenues for contracts assumed from our acquisition of Sun to their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date by an aggregate of $39 million for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010. This amount would have been recorded as hardware systems support revenues by Sun, as a standalone entity, for the periods presented. To the extent underlying hardware systems support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full values of the hardware systems support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year. Services Business Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. As a result of our acquisition of Sun in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we expanded and enhanced our customer base and services offerings, which we believe will increase our revenues and expenses in comparison to recent periods. Our services business, which represented 16% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, has significantly lower margins than our software business and what we expect to achieve from our hardware systems business. Consulting: Our consulting line of business primarily provides services to customers in business/IT strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades of our database, middleware and applications software. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag the amount of our software and hardware systems products revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after the purchase of our products. Our consulting revenues are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of product revenues, in particular the new software license sales of our application products. To the extent we are able to grow our products revenues, in particular our software application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to eventually grow our consulting revenues. On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we increased the volume and breadth of our On Demand services offerings, primarily with additional Advanced Customer Services offerings, including staff augmentation and managed services, to architect, implement and manage customer IT environments. While we have grown the base of customers that purchase certain of our On Demand services through our organic growth and the acquisition of Sun, we continue to focus on managing our expenses to increase our margins and margins as a percentage of our revenues. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue growth, which historically has negatively impacted On Demand margins and could do so in the future. Education: The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our software and hardware systems products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our software and hardware systems products revenues. Education revenues are impacted by certain of our acquisitions (including our acquisition of Sun), general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our customers information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. In recent periods, we believe the global economic environment has unfavorably affected customer demand for our education services, which has negatively impacted our revenues and margins. 37 Table of Contents Acquisitions An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies including Sun in fiscal 2010 and BEA Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2008, among others. We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. In July 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification), which we adopted in our second quarter of fiscal 2010. There were no changes to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures contained in this Quarterly Report due to the implementation of the Codification, other than changes in reference in this Quarterly Report to the various authoritative accounting pronouncements contained within the Codification. GAAP, as set forth within the Codification, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill and Intangible AssetsImpairment Assessments Accounting for Income Taxes Legal and Other Contingencies Stock-Based Compensation Allowances for Doubtful Accounts In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 38 Table of Contents During the first nine months of fiscal 2010, we adopted certain new accounting pronouncements and accounting standards updates that affected our critical accounting policies and estimates, namely: Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (ASU 2009-13) and Accounting Standards Update 2009-14, Software (Topic 985)Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements (ASU 2009-14), both of which affected our Revenue Recognition policy (see additional discussion below); and Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations , which affected our Business Combinations and Accounting for Income Taxes policies. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009 for a more complete discussion. There were no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates in fiscal 2010 other than those noted above and presented below and the aforementioned reference changes resulting from the Codification. Revenue Recognition Our sources of revenues prior to our acquisition of Sun were: (1) software, which includes new software license and software license updates and product support revenues, and (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and education revenues. As a result of our acquisition of Sun on January 26, 2010, our sources of revenues have been expanded to include hardware systems products, which primarily include revenues from the sale of computer servers and storage products, and hardware systems support revenues. Revenue Recognition for Software Products and Software Related Services (Software Elements) New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support revenues. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the accounting guidance contained in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition , we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenues when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner. Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example, in agreements with government entities where acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support contracts, which are entered into at the customers option and are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. Software license updates and product support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. 39 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element ArrangementsSoftware Products and Software Related Services (Software Arrangements) We often enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both software related products and services from us at the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as software related multiple-element arrangements). Such software related multiple element arrangements include the sale of our software products, software license updates and product support contracts and other software related services whereby software license delivery is followed by the subsequent or contemporaneous delivery of the other elements. For those software related multiple-element arrangements, we have applied the residual method to determine the amount of license revenues to be recognized pursuant to ASC 985-605. Under the residual method, if fair value exists for undelivered elements in a multiple-element arrangement, such fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred with the remaining portion of the arrangement consideration recognized upon delivery of the software license or services arrangement. We allocate the fair values of each element of a software related multiple-element arrangement based upon its fair value as determined by our vendor specific objective evidence (VSOEdescribed further below), with any remaining amount allocated to the software license. Revenue Recognition for Hardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Elements) Revenues from the sale of hardware systems products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of computer servers and storage products. Our revenue recognition policy for these nonsoftware deliverables is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , and we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of hardware systems products and hardware systems related services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period. Revenues from the sales of hardware systems products are recognized when: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) we deliver the products and passage of the title to the buyer occurs; (3) the sale price is fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is reasonably assured. Revenues that are not recognized at the time of sale because the foregoing conditions are not met are recognized when those conditions are subsequently met. When applicable, we reduce revenues for estimated returns or certain other incentive programs where we have the ability to sufficiently estimate the effects of these items. Where an arrangement is subject to acceptance criteria and the acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. Our hardware systems support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can also include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Hardware systems support contracts are entered into at the customers option and are recognized ratably over the contractual term of the arrangement. Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element ArrangementsHardware Systems Products and Hardware Systems Related Services (Nonsoftware Arrangements) In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we early adopted the provisions of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14. ASU 2009-13 amended existing accounting guidance for revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements. To the extent a deliverable within a multiple-element arrangement is not accounted for pursuant to other accounting standards, including ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition, ASU 2009-13 establishes a selling price hierarchy that allows for the use of an estimated selling price (ESP) to determine the allocation of arrangement consideration to a deliverable in a multiple element arrangement where neither VSOE nor third-party evidence (TPE) is available for that deliverable. ASU 2009-14 modifies the scope of ASC 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. In addition, ASU 2009-14 provides guidance on how a vendor should allocate arrangement consideration to nonsoftware and software deliverables in an arrangement where the vendor sells tangible products containing software components that are essential in delivering the tangible products functionality. 40 Table of Contents As a result of our early adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14, we applied the provisions of these accounting standards updates as of the beginning of our fiscal year 2010. The retrospective applications of ASU 2009-13 and 2009-14 as of the beginning of our fiscal year 2010 had no impact to our previously reported results of operations. We enter into arrangements with customers that purchase both nonsoftware related products and services from us at the same time, or within close proximity of one another (referred to as nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements). Each element within a nonsoftware multiple-element arrangement is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting provided the following criteria are met: the delivered products or services have value to the customer on a standalone basis; and for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services, delivery or performance of the undelivered product or service is considered probable and is substantially controlled by us. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if the product or service is sold separately by us or another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products. Where the aforementioned criteria for a separate unit of accounting are not met, the deliverable is combined with the undelivered element(s) and treated as a single unit of accounting for the purposes of allocation of the arrangement consideration and revenue recognition. For those units of accounting which include more than one deliverable but are treated as a single unit of accounting, we generally recognize revenues over the delivery period. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate revenue to hardware system and services based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements. For our nonsoftware multiple-element arrangements, we allocate revenue to each element based on a selling price hierarchy at the arrangement inception. The selling price for each element is based upon the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE if available, TPE if VSOE is not available, or ESP if neither VSOE nor TPE is available (a description as to how we determine VSOE, TPE and ESP is provided below). If a tangible hardware systems product includes software, we determine whether the tangible hardware systems product and the software work together to deliver the products essential functionality and, if so, the entire product is treated as a nonsoftware deliverable. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each of the nonsoftware deliverables using the relative selling prices of each based on the aforementioned selling price hierarchy. We limit the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to an amount that is not contingent upon future delivery of additional products or services or meeting of any specified performance conditions. To determine the selling price in multiple-element arrangements, we establish VSOE of selling price using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately and for software license updates and product support and hardware systems support, based on the renewal rates offered to customers. For nonsoftware multiple element arrangements, TPE is established by evaluating similar and interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone arrangements with similarly situated customers. If we are unable to determine the selling price because VSOE or TPE doesnt exist, we determine ESP for the purposes of allocating the arrangement by considering several external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices, margin objectives, competition, geographies in which we offer our products and services, internal costs and stage of the product lifecycle. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration our go-to-market strategy. As our, or our competitors, pricing and go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to our determination of VSOE, TPE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements could differ materially from our results in the current period. Selling prices are analyzed on an annual basis or more frequently if we experience significant changes in our selling prices. Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to both Software and Nonsoftware Elements Revenue Recognition for Multiple-Element ArrangementsArrangements with Software and Nonsoftware Elements We also enter into multiple-element arrangements that may include a combination of our various software related and nonsoftware related products and services offerings including hardware systems products, hardware systems support, new software licenses, software license updates and product support, consulting, On Demand and education. In such arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the nonsoftware elements. We then further 41 Table of Contents allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group following the guidance in ASC 985-605 and our policies described above. After the arrangement consideration has been allocated to the elements, we account for each respective element in the arrangement as described above. Other Revenue Recognition Policies Applicable to Software and Nonsoftware Elements Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts and are included as a part of our services business. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as services transactions as defined in ASC 985-605. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenues should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e. consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or not to exceed fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services and is a part of our services business. Oracle On Demand services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying new software licenses or hardware systems products and services. Our On Demand services provide multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our software and hardware systems products delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide customers with services to architect, implement and manage customer IT environments including software and hardware systems product management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. Depending upon the nature of the arrangement, revenues from On Demand services are recognized as services are performed or ratably over the term of the service period, which is generally one year or less. Education revenues are a part of our services business and include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware systems products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered. If an arrangement contains multiple elements and does not qualify for separate accounting for the product and service transactions, then new software license revenues and/or hardware systems products revenues, including the costs of hardware systems products, are generally recognized together with the services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any bundled software, hardware systems and services arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license or hardware systems product fees; (2) where consulting services include significant modification or customization of the software or hardware systems product; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract or hardware systems product contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license or hardware systems product payment is tied to the performance of consulting services. For the purposes of revenue classification of the elements that are accounted for as a single unit of accounting, we allocate revenues to software and nonsoftware elements based on a rational and consistent methodology utilizing our best estimate of fair value of such elements. 42 Table of Contents We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing fiscal funding or termination for convenience provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the essential use of the software or hardware systems products and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity. We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition. While most of our arrangements for sales within our software and hardware systems businesses include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as true sales as defined in ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing . In addition, we sell hardware systems products to leasing companies that, in turn, lease these products to end-users. In transactions where the leasing companies have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user, we recognize revenue at point of shipment or point of delivery, depending on the shipping terms and if all the other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In arrangements where the leasing companies have more than insignificant recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user (defined as recourse leasing), we recognize both the product revenue and the related cost of the product as the payments are made to the leasing company by the end-user, generally ratably over the lease term. Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have sold our products to these same companies (Concurrent Transactions). Software license agreements or sales of hardware systems that occur within a three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any sales transaction, at terms we consider to be at arms length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues or hardware systems products revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations. Results of Operations Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the same periods in fiscal 2009 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of Sun in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products (for acquisitions that were completed since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2009) to the growth in new software license revenues, software license updates and product support revenues, hardware 43 Table of Contents systems products revenues and hardware systems support revenues. We also are able to quantify the total incremental expenses associated with our hardware systems products and hardware systems support segments. The incremental contributions of our acquisitions to our other businesses and operating segments revenues and expenses are not provided as they either were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these operating segments into our existing operations and/or were insignificant to our results of operations for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010. We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the information has inherent limitations for the following reasons: the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different; and although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal and we intend to focus our efforts on renewing hardware systems support contracts, the amounts shown as software license updates and product support deferred revenues and hardware systems products deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. The operating margins of our businesses are affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses business) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses including our non-operating income and expenses, will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2009, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2010 and February 28, 2009, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.36 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 (using 1.36 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.27 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2009 (using 1.27 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010 and 2009 using the May 31, 2009 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 44 Table of Contents Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Total Revenues by Geography: Americas $ 3,284 15% 12% $ 2,846 $ 8,934 6% 5% $ 8,437 EMEA (1) 2,167 19% 12% 1,824 5,785 5% 3% 5,535 Asia Pacific (2) 953 22% 12% 783 2,596 7% 1% 2,419 Total revenues 6,404 17% 12% 5,453 17,315 6% 4% 16,391 Total Operating Expenses 4,561 30% 26% 3,513 11,553 5% 5% 10,955 Total Operating Margin $ 1,843 -5% -12% $ 1,940 $ 5,762 6% 2% $ 5,436 Total Operating Margin % 29% 36% 33% 33% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 51% 52% 52% 51% EMEA 34% 33% 33% 34% Asia Pacific 15% 15% 15% 15% Total Revenues by Business: Software $ 5,015 13% 8% $ 4,433 $ 14,060 7% 5% $ 13,081 Hardware Systems 458 * * 458 * * Services 931 -9% -13% 1,020 2,797 -15% -17% 3,310 Total revenues $ 6,404 17% 12% $ 5,453 $ 17,315 6% 4% $ 16,391 % Revenues by Business: Software 78% 81% 81% 80% Hardware Systems 7% 0% 3% 0% Services 15% 19% 16% 20% (1) Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (2 ) Asia Pacific includes Japan * Not meaningful Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: Our operating results for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 were favorably impacted by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. These favorable currency variances resulted in an increase to our total revenues of 5 percentage points during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. On a constant currency basis, total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 increased due to $543 million of revenues from our acquisition of Sun, primarily in our hardware systems business, an increase in our new software license revenues resulting from growth in our database and middleware and applications products revenues and an increase in software license updates and product support revenues. These constant currency increases were partially offset by a constant currency decrease of 13% in our services business, which we believe was caused by weaker demand for IT services due to the deterioration in global economic conditions in recent quarters. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 33% and APAC contributed 14% to our growth in total revenues. Total operating expenses were unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the 26% increase in total operating expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 was due to additional operating expenses incurred as a result of our acquisition of Sun, including increased expenses pertaining to hardware systems products sold, additional employee related expenses, and an increase in intangible asset amortization. In addition, we also incurred increased restructuring expenses resulting from our Sun Restructuring Plan and legacy Oracle-based restructuring plans. 45 Table of Contents Excluding the effects of favorable foreign currency variations of 7 percentage points, total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to the post-combination contributions from our acquisition of Sun as our total expenses, primarily related to our hardware systems business, restructuring and amortization of intangible assets, grew at a faster rate than our total revenues. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: Excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations of 2 percentage points, total revenues increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 due to growth in our total software revenues and our additional revenues resulting from entry into the hardware systems business, partially offset by a decrease in our total services revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 70%, EMEA contributed 28% and APAC contributed 2% to our total revenues growth. The increase in our total operating expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 was due to the reasons noted above, partially offset by expense reductions in our legacy Oracle-based operations including reductions in our services business, reductions to bad debt expenses due to improved collections and reductions to travel expenses due to cost management initiatives. On a constant currency basis, our operating margin increased modestly during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 as our total revenues exceeded our total expenses. However, on a constant currency basis our operating margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly due to the post-combination contributions from our acquisition of Sun, which increased our total expenses at a faster rate than our total revenues. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under Impact of Acquisitions (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information. Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other significant expense items: Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, (in millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 Software license updates and product support deferred revenues (1) $ 26 $ 51 $ 49 $ 222 Hardware systems support deferred revenues (1) 39 39 Hardware systems products expenses (2) 24 24 Amortization of intangible assets (3) 502 437 1,369 1,276 Acquisition related and other (4)(6) 34 27 50 98 Restructuring (5) 306 15 467 46 Stock-based compensation (6) 112 85 300 260 Income tax effects (7) (287 ) (164 ) (624 ) (535 ) $ 756 $ 451 $ 1,674 $ 1,367 (1) In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of software support and hardware systems support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amounts of $26 million and $51 million for the three months ended February 28, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $49 million and $222 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we did not recognize hardware systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by Sun as an independent entity in the amount of $39 million for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010. Approximately $35 million, $60 million and $25 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of these business combination accounting rules. In addition, approximately $89 million, $148 million, $35 million and $11 million of estimated hardware 46 Table of Contents systems support revenues related to hardware systems support contracts assumed will not be recognized during the remainder of fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively, that would have otherwise been recognized by Sun as an independent entity. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period. ( 2 ) Represents the effects of fair value adjustments to our inventories acquired from Sun that were sold to customers in the periods presented. Business combination accounting rules require us to account for inventories assumed from our acquisitions at their fair values. The amount included in hardware systems products expenses above is intended to adjust these expenses to the hardware systems products expenses that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as a standalone entity upon the sale of these inventories. If we acquire inventories in future acquisitions, we will be required to assess their fair values, which may result in fair value adjustments to those inventories. ( 3 ) Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions, primarily Sun Microsystems, Inc., BEA Systems, Inc., Hyperion Solutions Corporation, Siebel Systems, Inc. and PeopleSoft, Inc. As of February 28, 2010, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets were as follows (in millions): Remainder of Fiscal 2010 $ 609 Fiscal 2011 2,259 Fiscal 2012 1,988 Fiscal 2013 1,620 Fiscal 2014 1,340 Fiscal 2015 1,006 Thereafter 631 Total intangible assets subject to amortization 9,453 In-process research and development 415 Total $ 9,868 ( 4 ) Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement period or purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805, Business Combinations , as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses are now recorded as expenses in our statements of operations that had been historically included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of our accounting for acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules, primarily direct transaction costs such as professional services fees (see further discussion in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009). ( 5 ) Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 relate to $232 million of Oracle employee severance and facility exit costs, substantially in connection with our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan that was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and amended in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In addition, we also incurred $235 million of restructuring expenses in connection with our Sun Restructuring Plan that was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2009 relate to costs incurred pursuant to the Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan and the Fiscal 2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan. As a result of our fiscal 2010 adoption of ASC 805, Business Combinations , in connection with any acquisition that we close prospectively, we will record involuntary termination and other exit costs associated with the acquisition to restructuring expenses, which is a change in the required accounting in comparison to prior year periods (see further discussion in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009). 47 Table of Contents ( 6 ) Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions): Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Sales and marketing $ 21 $ 16 $ 57 $ 51 Software license updates and product support 4 3 12 10 Hardware systems products 2 2 Hardware systems support 1 1 Services 4 3 10 9 Research and development 46 39 122 121 General and administrative 34 24 96 69 Subtotal 112 85 300 260 Acquisition related and other 10 3 10 14 Total stock-based compensation $ 122 $ 88 $ 310 $ 274 Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. ( 7 ) The income tax effects presented in the table above were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the charges and resulted in an effective tax rate of 25.9% and 26.6% for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 27.1% and 27.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The differences in the income tax rates for the fiscal third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 in comparison to the income tax rates derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations were due to differences in jurisdictional tax rates and the related tax benefits attributable to our restructuring expenses. The difference in the income tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2009 in comparison to the income tax rate derived per our condensed consolidated statement of operations was due to the exclusion of the effect of an adjustment to our non-current deferred tax liability associated with acquired intangible assets. Software Business Our software business consists of our new software licenses segment and software license updates and product support segment. New Software Licenses: New software license revenues primarily represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses for new software licenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets. 48 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 New Software License Revenues: Americas $ 823 22% 18% $ 673 $ 2,096 7% 5 % $ 1,959 EMEA 590 3% -2% 571 1,452 -6% -10% 1,548 Asia Pacific 305 12% 4% 272 851 -2% -9% 872 Total revenues 1,718 13% 8% 1,516 4,399 0% -3% 4,379 Expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 1,145 10% 5% 1,038 3,203 -2% -3% 3,261 Stock-based compensation 21 29% 29% 16 57 10% 10% 51 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 196 -7% -7% 211 610 0% 0% 608 Total expense 1,362 8% 4% 1,265 3,870 -1% -2% 3,920 Total Margin $ 356 41% 26% $ 251 $ 529 15% -5% $ 459 Total Margin % 21% 17% 12% 10% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 48% 44% 48% 45% EMEA 34% 38% 33% 35% Asia Pacific 18% 18% 19% 20% Revenues by Product: Database and middleware $ 1,241 11% 5% $ 1,120 $ 3,127 -2% -5% $ 3,184 Applications 477 21% 15% 396 1,272 6% 4% 1,195 Total new software license revenues $ 1,718 13% 8% $ 1,516 $ 4,399 0% -3% $ 4,379 % Revenues by Product: Database and middleware 72% 74% 71% 72% Applications 28% 26% 29% 28% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: New software license revenues were favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new software license revenues increased by 8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to improved demand for our database and middleware and applications products across the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, which grew by 18% and 4%, respectively, and by increased revenues from our acquisitions. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, database and middleware revenues increased 5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to improved demand and incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions. In reported currency, our acquisition of Sun contributed $46 million and other recent acquisitions contributed $34 million to the growth in our database and middleware revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. In constant currency, database and middleware revenues decreased by 5% on a trailing 4-quarter basis due to weaker global economic conditions that we believe impacted or delayed customers purchasing decisions, including decreases in revenues from certain customers that embed our technology in or resell our product with their own products as these vendors own revenues decreased. Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, applications new software license revenues increased by 15% in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to improved demand across our major applications product lines. In constant currency, applications new software license revenues decreased by 2% in the trailing 4-quarter period. 49 Table of Contents In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by 17% in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and represented 47% of our new software license revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 in comparison to 46% in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Total new software license sales and marketing expenses were unfavorably impacted by 4 percentage points of currency variations during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total sales and marketing expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 primarily due to higher variable compensation expenses resulting from higher revenues and higher operating expenses from our acquisition of Sun. These expense increases were partially offset by a net reduction in our developed and core technology intangible asset amortization as certain of our legacy intangible assets became fully amortized in the current fiscal quarter and by a modest decline in salary expenses resulting from certain headcount reductions in our legacy operations. Our new software license segments operating margin was impacted by 15 percentage points of favorable currency variations during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues grew faster than our expenses. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 3 percentage points, total new software license revenues decreased by 3% in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 due to lower revenues in the first half of fiscal 2010, which we believe were the result of weaker global economic conditions, partially offset by revenue increases in our third quarter of fiscal 2010 and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. In reported currency, our acquisition of Sun and other recently acquired products contributed $46 million and $70 million, respectively, to our database and middleware revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 and our recently acquired products contributed $31 million to our applications revenues. In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million increased by 4% in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 and represented 48% of new software license revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 in comparison to 46% in the first nine months of fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, total new software license sales and marketing expenses decreased due to a reduction in salaries expenses primarily during the first half of fiscal 2010 and lower travel and entertainment and marketing communication expenses as a result of cost management initiatives. These expense decreases were partially offset by increased operating expenses from our acquisition of Sun. Excluding the effect of favorable foreign currency rate fluctuations of 20 percentage points, new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as our revenues decreased at a slightly faster rate than our expenses. Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from acquisitions. 50 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Software License Updates and Product Support Revenues: Americas $ 1,801 9% 6% $ 1,656 $ 5,230 9% 9% $ 4,788 EMEA 1,069 18% 10% 904 3,189 12% 11% 2,846 Asia Pacific 427 20% 10% 357 1,242 16% 9% 1,068 Total revenues 3,297 13% 8% 2,917 9,661 11% 10% 8,702 Expenses: Software license updates and product support (1) 277 9% 5% 253 759 -3% -5% 785 Stock-based compensation 4 37% 37% 3 12 27% 27% 10 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 207 -3% -3% 213 634 1% 1% 628 Total expenses 488 4% 1% 469 1,405 -1% -2% 1,423 Total Margin $ 2,809 15% 9% $ 2,448 $ 8,256 13% 12% $ 7,279 Total Margin % 85% 84% 85% 84% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 55% 57% 54% 55% EMEA 32% 31% 33% 33% Asia Pacific 13% 12% 13% 12% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: The growth in our software license updates and product support revenues was favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 as a result of new software licenses sold (with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts) during the trailing 4-quarter period, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the first nine months of the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from recent acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 44%, EMEA contributed 41% and Asia Pacific contributed 15% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 included incremental revenues of $11 million from our acquisition of Sun and $4 million from our other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $26 million and $51 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities were not recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year in duration. Total software license updates and product support expenses were unfavorably impacted by 3 percentage points of currency variations during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, growth in software license updates and product support expenses was attributable to higher operating expenses partly resulting from our acquisition of Sun. These expense increases were partially offset by a reduction in bad debt expenses from improved cash collections and a net reduction in core technology intangible asset amortization as certain of our legacy intangible assets became fully amortized in the current fiscal quarter. 51 Table of Contents Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues grew at a faster rate than our expenses. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, the growth in our software license updates and product support revenues is primarily attributable to the same reasons as noted above. On a constant currency basis, the Americas contributed 50%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 included revenues of $11 million from our acquisition of Sun and incremental contributions of $47 million from other recently acquired companies. Software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $49 million and $222 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to business combination accounting rules. On a constant currency basis, software license updates and product support expenses decreased due to reductions in our bad debt expenses from improved collections during the first nine months of fiscal 2010, which were partially offset by an increase in salary expenses from increased headcount, including headcount assumed from Sun. Total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased for a similar reason as noted above. Hardware Systems Business As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we entered into a new hardware systems business. Our hardware systems business consists of two operating segments: hardware systems products and hardware systems support. Our hardware systems business will add a significant amount of revenues and expenses to our results of operations in comparison to our historical operating results. Our hardware systems business has lower margins than our software business due to the incremental costs we incur in order to produce and distribute our hardware systems products and related support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Hardware Systems Products: Hardware systems products revenues are primarily generated from the sales of our computer server and storage products. We market and sell our hardware systems products through our direct sales force and indirect channels such as independent distributors and value added resellers. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products include the cost of hardware systems products, which consist of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete. Operating expenses associated with our hardware systems products also include sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware systems products, and amortization of intangible assets. 52 Table of Contents Three and Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Hardware Systems Products Revenues: Americas $ 131 * * $ EMEA 95 * * Asia Pacific 47 * * Total revenues 273 * * Expenses: Hardware systems products (1) 204 * * Sales and marketing (1) 75 * * Stock-based compensation 2 * * Amortization of intangible assets (2) 60 * * Total expenses 341 * * Total Margin $ (68 ) * * $ Total Margin % -25% * % Revenues by Geography: Americas 48% * EMEA 35% * Asia Pacific 17% * (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful Hardware systems products revenues and expenses for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010 resulted from our acquisition of Sun on January 26, 2010. Hardware systems products revenues totaled $273 million during the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010 and were net of $41 million of revenue deferrals resulting from shipments for which all of our revenue recognition criteria had not been met. Our hardware systems products expenses totaled $206 million during the three and nine months ended February 28, 2010 and were unfavorably affected by $24 million of fair value adjustments made pursuant to ASC 805, Business Combinations , for inventories we assumed from Sun and sold to customers in the post-combination period. Sales and marketing expenses were attributable primarily to personnel related costs resulting from our acquisition of Sun, including salaries, variable compensation, and travel and entertainment expenses. In addition, we incurred amortization of intangible assets that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of Sun. Hardware Systems Support: Our hardware systems support offerings provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware systems and storage products and can include product repairs, maintenance services, and technical support services. Expenses associated with our hardware systems support operating segment include the cost of materials used to repair customer products, the cost of providing support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with hardware systems support contracts and customer relationships obtained from the Sun acquisition. 53 Table of Contents Three and Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Hardware Systems Support Revenues: Americas $ 66 * * $ EMEA 85 * * Asia Pacific 34 * * Total revenues 185 * * Expenses: Hardware systems support (1) 115 * * Stock-based compensation 1 * * Amortization of intangible assets (2) 24 * * Total expenses 140 * * Total Margin $ 45 * * $ Total Margin % 24% * % Revenues by Geography: Americas 36% * EMEA 46% * Asia Pacific 18% * (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations * Not meaningful Hardware systems support revenues and expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 resulted from our acquisition of Sun. Our hardware systems support revenues were attributable to hardware systems support contracts that we assumed through our acquisition of Sun and, to a lesser extent, support contracts that were purchased or renewed by customers in the post-combination period. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we recorded adjustments to reduce assumed hardware systems support obligations to their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, hardware systems support revenues related to support contracts in the amount of $39 million that would have been otherwise recorded by Sun as an independent entity were not recognized in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods. Hardware systems support expenses were attributable to cost of materials used to repair customer products and personnel related costs, including salaries, variable compensation, and travel and entertainment expenses. We also incurred amortization of intangible assets related to this operating segment. Services Business Our services business consists of our consulting, On Demand and education segments. Consulting: Consulting revenues are primarily earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of employee and external contractor related expenditures. 54 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Consulting Revenues: Americas $ 323 -15% -17% $ 378 $ 1,018 -19% -19% $ 1,252 EMEA 236 -13% -19% 271 708 -19% -20% 872 Asia Pacific 92 -15% -23% 109 280 -18% -23% 341 Total revenues 651 -14% -18% 758 2,006 -19% -20% 2,465 Expenses: Services (1) 576 -10% -14% 640 1,798 -16% -17% 2,131 Stock-based compensation 2 -11% -11% 2 5 0% 0% 5 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 10 -2% -2% 10 29 -7% -7% 30 Total expenses 588 -10% -14% 652 1,832 -15% -16% 2,166 Total Margin $ 63 -40% -44% $ 106 $ 174 -41% -44% $ 299 Total Margin % 10% 14% 9% 12% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 50% 50% 51% 51% EMEA 36% 36% 35% 35% Asia Pacific 14% 14% 14% 14% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: Consulting revenues were favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, we believe the decline in our consulting revenues was generally due to weaker demand resulting from the deterioration of global economic conditions over recent quarters. Consulting expenses were unfavorably impacted by 4 percentage points of foreign currency rate variations during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses decreased during the third quarter due primarily to a reduction in employee related expenses, including salaries and travel and entertainment, and also due to a reduction in external contractor related expenses. On a constant currency basis, consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 as our revenues declined at a greater rate than our expenses. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the decline in consulting revenues was consistent with the reason noted above. Our decreases in consulting expenses, margin and margin as a percentage of revenues were also generally due to similar reasons as noted above and were also affected by a reduction in variable compensation expenses during the first half of fiscal 2010. On Demand: Our On Demand segment includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for our database and middleware as well as our applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers, or at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. The cost of providing On Demand services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs. 55 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 On Demand Revenues: Americas $ 112 3% 1% $ 109 $ 302 -5% -6% $ 319 EMEA 67 25% 17% 53 183 7% 6% 171 Asia Pacific 32 12% 2% 29 94 11% 5% 85 Total revenues 211 10% 6% 191 579 1% -1% 575 Expenses: Services (1) 176 19% 14% 147 441 -3% -4% 457 Stock-based compensation 1 32% 32% 1 4 21% 21% 3 Amortization of intangible assets (2) 5 49% 49% 3 12 16% 16% 10 Total expenses 182 20% 14% 151 457 -3% -4% 470 Total Margin $ 29 -27% -31% $ 40 $ 122 17% 14% $ 105 Total Margin % 14% 21% 21% 18% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 53% 57% 52% 55% EMEA 32% 28% 32% 30% Asia Pacific 15% 15% 16% 15% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation (2) Included as a component of Amortization of Intangible Assets in our condensed consolidated statements of operations Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: Excluding the effects of favorable currency rate fluctuations, On Demand revenues and expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 primarily due to additional revenues and expenses from our acquisition of Sun. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 6%, EMEA contributed 89%, and APAC contributed 5% to our total On Demand revenues growth. On a constant currency basis, On Demand margins and margins as a percentage of revenues declined during the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to the post-combination contributions from our acquisition of Sun, which increased our total expenses at a faster rate than our total revenues. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the decrease in our On Demand revenues was primarily due to modest revenue declines from our legacy On Demand business, partially offset by increased revenues from our acquisition of Sun. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, our On Demand expenses decreased due to lower legacy employee related expenses during the first half of fiscal 2010, partially offset by additional expenses from our acquisition of Sun in our third quarter of fiscal 2010. On a constant currency basis, our On Demand margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to our expense decreases. Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our software and hardware systems products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs. 56 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Education Revenues: Americas $ 28 -8% -11% $ 30 $ 91 -23% -24% $ 118 EMEA 25 1% -5% 25 73 -26% -26% 99 Asia Pacific 16 -3% -10% 16 48 -10% -15% 53 Total revenues 69 -4% -8% 71 212 -22% -23% 270 Expenses: Services (1) 60 -8% -12% 65 180 -19% -20% 223 Stock-based compensation 1 * * 1 19% 19% 1 Total expenses 61 -8% -12% 65 181 -19% -20% 224 Total Margin $ 8 42% 27% $ 6 $ 31 -34% -37% $ 46 Total Margin % 12% 8% 15% 17% % Revenues by Geography: Americas 41% 43% 43% 43% EMEA 36% 34% 34% 37% Asia Pacific 23% 23% 23% 20% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation * Not meaningful On a constant currency basis, education revenues decreased in the fiscal 2010 periods as we experienced weaker demand for our educational services that we believe was the result of weaker global economic conditions. These decreases were partially offset by additional revenues from our acquisition of Sun. On a constant currency basis, education expenses decreased in the fiscal 2010 periods as we reduced our employee related and external contractor expenses. These decreases were partially offset by additional expenses from our acquisition of Sun. On a constant currency basis, education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to our expense reductions, while education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 decreased due to a reduction in our revenues. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Research and development (1) $ 777 22% 20% $ 638 $ 2,069 8% 8% $ 1,916 Stock-based compensation 46 16% 16% 39 122 1% 1% 121 Total expenses 823 22% 20% $ 677 $ 2,191 8% 8% $ 2,037 % of Total Revenues 13% 12% 12% 12% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2010 periods primarily due to additional employee related expenses resulting primarily from our acquisition of Sun. In addition, our expenses in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 were also impacted by higher benefits expenses due to an increase in deferred compensation plan obligations (refer to additional discussion under Non-Operating Income (Expense), net below), which were partially offset by lower external contractor expenses. 57 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 General and administrative (1) $ 202 19% 16% $ 168 $ 523 4% 4% $ 502 Stock-based compensation 34 52% 52% 24 96 41% 41% 69 Total expenses $ 236 23% 20% $ 192 $ 619 8% 8% $ 571 % of Total Revenues 4% 4% 4% 4% (1) Excluding stock-based compensation On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the fiscal 2010 periods due to additional employee related and professional services expenses from our acquisition of Sun, and higher stock-based compensation expenses primarily resulting from higher fair values of our legacy stock options that were recognized as expense in the current year periods. Amortization of Intangible Assets: Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Software support agreements and related relationships $ 141 1% 1% $ 139 $ 421 3% 3% $ 410 Hardware systems support agreements and related relationships 12 * * 12 * * Developed technology 209 14% 14% 184 568 6% 6% 538 Core technology 67 3% 3% 65 197 4% 4% 190 Customer relationships 61 56% 56% 39 140 25% 25% 111 Trademarks 12 20% 20% 10 31 15% 15% 27 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 502 15% 15% $ 437 $ 1,369 7% 7% $ 1,276 * Not meaningful Amortization of intangible assets increased in the fiscal 2010 periods due to additional amortization from acquired intangible assets, including from our acquisition of Sun, that we acquired since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2009. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in amortization associated with certain of our developed and core technology intangible assets that became fully amortized in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments after the measurement periods or purchase price allocation periods have ended, and certain other operating expenses, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards. As a result of our adoption of the FASBs revised accounting standard for business combinations as of the beginning of fiscal 2010, certain acquisition related and other expenses are now recorded as expenses in our statements of operations that had been historically included as a part of the consideration transferred and capitalized as a part of our accounting for acquisitions pursuant to previous accounting rules, primarily direct transaction costs such as professional services fees. 58 Table of Contents Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Transitional and other employee related costs $ 5 -44% -45% $ 8 $ 10 -74% -72% $ 39 Stock-based compensation 10 250% 250% 3 10 -29% -29% 14 Professional fees and other, net 18 15% 15% 16 25 -26% -24% 34 Business combination adjustments, net 1 * * 5 -52% -43% 11 Total acquisition related and other expenses $ 34 28% 28% $ 27 $ 50 -48% -46% $ 98 * Not meaningful Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased in the fiscal 2010 periods due primarily to higher stock-based compensation expenses related to our acquisition of Sun. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the decrease in our acquisition related and other expenses was primarily due to lower transitional employee expenses, lower stock-based compensation expenses and decreases in certain other expenses, which were higher in the prior year period due primarily to BEA related integration activities (we acquired BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008). Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. Beginning in fiscal 2010, our adoption of the FASBs revised accounting standard for business combinations required that, in connection with any prospective acquisition, we record involuntary employee termination and other exit costs associated with such acquisition to restructuring expenses in our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009). For additional information regarding our Oracle-based and acquired company restructuring plans, please see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Restructuring expenses $ 306 1,968% 1,867% $ 15 $ 467 926% 906% $ 46 Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2010 periods consisted of expenses associated with the Oracle Fiscal 2009 Restructuring Plan (2009 Plan), which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. We amended the 2009 Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take over the course of fiscal 2010. We also incurred restructuring expenses pursuant to our Sun Restructuring Plan, which our management approved, committed to and initiated in order to better align our cost structure in connection with our acquisition of Sun. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2009 Plan and Sun Restructuring Plan are $453 million and $325 million, respectively, and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated statements of operations as the costs are recognized. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010, we recorded $71 million and $232 million, respectively, of restructuring expenses in connection with our Oracle-based plans, primarily the 2009 Plan, and we incurred $235 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the Sun Restructuring Plan. Our estimated costs may be subject to change in future periods. Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2009 periods consisted primarily of expenses associated with the 2009 Plan and the Oracle Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan. 59 Table of Contents Interest Expense: Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Interest expense $ 186 20% 20% $ 154 $ 553 17% 17% $ 471 Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2010 periods due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009 and, to a lesser extent, our issuance of $2.0 billion of commercial paper notes in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 of which we had repaid $1.0 billion as of February 28, 2010 (see additional discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). These increases were partially offset by a reduction in interest expense associated with the maturity and repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes and the related variable to fixed interest rate swap agreement in May 2009. Non-Operating Income (Expense), net: Non-operating income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan), and net other income (losses) including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Interest income $ 27 -54% -57% $ 58 $ 91 -62% -63% $ 243 Foreign currency losses, net (88 ) -866% -1,124% (9 ) (109 ) -410% -416% (22 ) Noncontrolling interests in income (24 ) -3% 0% (23 ) (63 ) -9% -7% (58 ) Other income (losses), net 10 851% 927% (2 ) 40 184% 185% (49 ) Total non-operating income (expense), net $ (75 ) -413% -367% $ 24 $ (41 ) -136% -136% $ 114 Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: On a constant currency basis, we incurred non-operating expenses, net during the third quarter of 2010 due to an increase in foreign currency losses, net that included a loss relating to our Venezuelan subsidiarys operations. Effective December 1, 2009, we designated our Venezuelan subsidiary as highly inflationary in accordance with ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters , and began using the U.S. Dollar as the subsidiarys new functional currency. During our third quarter of fiscal 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and we recognized a $70 million foreign currency loss as a result of the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiary. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Our foreign currency losses, net were partially offset by interest income, which was lower in the current year period due to a general decline in market interest rates that resulted in lower yields earned on our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, we incurred non-operating expenses, net in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 primarily due to net foreign currency losses as described above. These net losses were partially offset by interest income, which was lower in fiscal 2010 due to similar reasons as noted above and by an increase in other income (losses), net resulting from favorable changes in asset values that support our deferred compensation plan obligations that resulted primarily from favorable changes in the values of our marketable securities that we classify as trading and are held to support our deferred compensation plan obligations. These favorable variances in the values of our marketable securities offset the unfavorable variances in the obligations associated with our deferred compensation plan that are included in our operating expenses such that there is no impact to our income before provision for income taxes during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 or any other period presented. 60 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes: The effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation. Three Months Ended February 28, Nine Months Ended February 28, Percent Change Percent Change (Dollars in millions) 2010 Actual Constant 2009 2010 Actual Constant 2009 Provision for income taxes $ 393 -18% -25% $ 481 $ 1,396 1% -3% $ 1,377 Effective tax rate 24.8% 26.6% 27.0% 27.1% Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2009: Provision for income taxes decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2010 primarily due to lower income before provision for income taxes, along with a fiscal 2010 change in estimate of prior year U.S. research and development credit resulting from our prior year income tax return. The decrease is offset, in part, due to a one-time benefit included in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 related to a change in tax law. First Nine Months Fiscal 2010 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2009: On a constant currency basis, provision for income taxes decreased during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 due to lower income before provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources (Dollars in millions) February 28, 2010 Change May 31, 2009 Working capital $ 9,728 3% $ 9,432 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 17,489 39% $ 12,624 Working capital: The increase in working capital as of February 28, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was primarily due to our issuance of $4.5 billion of long-term, senior notes in July 2009, and the favorable impact to our net current assets resulting from our net income generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2010. These increases were partially offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and other acquisitions, the reclassification of $2.2 billion of our senior notes due January 2011 as a current liability, $700 million of cash used to repay Suns legacy convertible notes shortly after the closing of the acquisition (see additional discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), repurchases of our common stock and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our working capital may be impacted by some of the aforementioned factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at February 28, 2010 in comparison to May 31, 2009 was due to our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes in July 2009, our issuance of $2.0 billion of commercial paper in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and an increase in cash generated from our operating activities. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities include $16.4 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of February 28, 2010. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar weakened against most major international currencies during the first nine 61 Table of Contents months of fiscal 2010, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased as of February 28, 2010 relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2009. Our increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were partially offset by $5.6 billion of net cash used for our acquisition of Sun and other companies, the repayment of $1.7 billion of debt comprised of the repayment of certain of our commercial paper notes and the repayment of Suns legacy convertible notes, the repurchases of our common stock, and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders. Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 54 days at February 28, 2010 compared with 58 days at May 31, 2009. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software license updates and product support obligations and hardware systems support obligations to their fair values. Our decline in days sales outstanding was primarily due to the collection, in our first nine months of fiscal 2010, of large license and support balances outstanding as of May 31, 2009. This decline was partially offset by the unfavorable impact to our days sales outstanding calculation of $1.1 billion of accounts receivable that we assumed from Sun as of January 26, 2010, which had not been entirely collected as of February 28, 2010 and for which no revenues were recorded in the post-combination period. Nine Months Ended February 28, (Dollars in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 6,170 -1% $ 6,247 Cash used for investing activities $ (9,769 ) 351% $ (2,165 ) Cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 3,835 219% $ (3,221 ) Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales, sales of hardware systems products and hardware systems support and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures and, as a result of our acquisition of Sun, materials costs related to the manufacturing of our hardware systems products. We also make cash payments related to taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased slightly in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 primarily due to slightly less cash favorable working capital movements during the first nine months of fiscal 2010 in comparison to the first nine months of fiscal 2009. Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth. Net cash used for investing activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of Sun, and cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from sales and maturities). Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercise activity. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 increased compared to cash used by financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2009 due to our issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes, our issuance of $951 million of commercial paper, net of repayments, and a reduction in our common stock repurchases. These increases were partially offset by the repayment of $700 million of Suns legacy convertible notes shortly after the closing of the acquisition. Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We 62 Table of Contents believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows: Trailing 4-Quarters Ended February 28, (Dollars in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 8,178 -4% $ 8,542 Capital expenditures (1) (199 ) -63% (539 ) Free cash flow $ 7,979 0% $ 8,003 Net income $ 5,663 $ 5,739 Free cash flow as a percent of net income 141% 139% (1) Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products and service offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In the first nine months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, $527 million and $644 million, respectively, or approximately 12% and 15%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division. Recent Financing Activities Revolving Credit Agreement : On March 16, 2010, our $2.0 billion 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement dated March 17, 2009, among Oracle; the lenders named therein; Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent; BNP Paribas as syndication agent; the documentation agents named therein; and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (the 2009 Credit Agreement), terminated pursuant to its terms. No debt was outstanding pursuant to the 2009 Credit Agreement as of February 28, 2010, or as of its date of termination. Commercial Paper Notes : During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we issued $2.0 billion of unsecured short-term commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to our commercial paper program, which allows us to issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. We issued these Commercial Paper Notes to finance a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of Sun. As of February 28, 2010, we had $951 million of Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at a weighted average yield, including issuance costs, of 0.18% that mature at various dates through June 14, 2010 (none outstanding as of May 31, 2009). We back-stop these notes with our revolving credit agreements and therefore, as of February 28, 2010, we consider that, prior to giving effect to the expiration of one of the revolving credit agreements, we have $3.9 billion of capacity remaining under our commercial paper program. Additional details of our various debt facilities and obligations are included in the Contractual Obligations section below, in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2009. Senior Notes Oracle Senior Notes : In July 2009, we issued $4.5 billion of fixed rate senior notes comprised of $1.5 billion of 3.75% notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes), $1.75 billion of 5.00% notes due July 2019 and $1.25 billion of 6.125% notes due July 2039. We issued these senior notes for general corporate purposes and to finance a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of Sun. In September 2009, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to our 2014 Notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations 63 Table of Contents associated with our 2014 Notes so that the interest obligations became variable based upon a LIBOR-based index. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging . Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Note 6 and Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in Item 3 below. Sun Convertible Notes : Shortly after the closing of our acquisition of Sun, we repaid, in full, $700 million of Suns legacy convertible notes during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Contractual Obligations: The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in preparing this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of February 28, 2010: Year Ending May 31, (Dollars in millions) Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Principal payments on short-term borrowings and long-term debt (1) $ 15,701 $ 1,870 $ 2,331 $ $ 1,250 $ $ 1,500 $ 8,750 Capital leases (2) 20 6 14 Interest payments on short-term borrowings and long-term debt (1) 7,694 155 691 577 577 515 504 4,675 Operating leases (3) 1,801 160 505 364 245 152 102 273 Purchase obligations (4) 749 692 27 12 3 3 3 9 Funding commitments (5) 3 3 Total contractual obligations $ 25,968 $ 2,886 $ 3,568 $ 953 $ 2,075 $ 670 $ 2,109 $ 13,707 (1) Our borrowings (excluding capital leases) consist of the following as of February 28, 2010: Principal Balance Commercial paper notes (effective interest rate of 0.18%) $ 951 Floating rate senior notes due May 2010 1,000 5.00% senior notes due January 2011, net of discount of $1 2,249 4.95% senior notes due April 2013 1,250 3.75% senior notes due July 2014 1,500 5.25% senior notes due January 2016, net of discount of $6 1,994 5.75% senior notes due April 2018, net of discount of $1 2,499 5.00% senior notes due July 2019, net of discount of $5 1,745 6.50% senior notes due April 2038, net of discount of $2 1,248 6.125% senior notes due July 2039, net of discount of $8 1,242 Total borrowings $ 15,678 Our floating rate senior notes due May 2010 bore interest at a rate of 0.31% as of February 28, 2010. We have entered into an interest rate swap agreement that has the economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.59%. Interest payments on borrowings have been presented in our contractual obligations table above after consideration of this variable to fixed interest rate swap agreement. Separately, we have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements related to our July 2014 senior notes that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with these senior notes so that the interest obligations effectively became variable pursuant to a LIBOR-based index. Interest payments on borrowings presented in the contractual obligations table above have been estimated using an interest rate of 1.37%, which represented our effective interest rate as of February 28, 2010 after consideration of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements, and are subject to change in future periods. The changes in fair value of our debt associated with the interest rate risk that 64 Table of Contents we are hedging pursuant to these agreements are included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet and have been excluded from the above table of borrowings. (2) Represents remaining payments under capital leases, substantially all of which were assumed from our acquisitions. (3) Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $399 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet at February 28, 2010. (4) Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. As a result of our acquisition of Sun, we now utilize several contract manufacturers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. We also obtain individual components for our products from a variety of individual suppliers based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments are based on our forecasted component and manufacturing requirements and typically provide for fulfillment within agreed upon lead-times and/or commercially standard lead-times for the particular part or product and have been included in this amount. Routine arrangements for other materials and goods that are not related to our contract manufacturers and other component suppliers and that are entered into in the ordinary course of business are not included in this amount as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. (5) Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments, which are payable upon demand. As of February 28, 2010, we have $2.9 billion of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $79 million of these liabilities (these amounts have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of when they might be settled). Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2010. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2010. Separately, in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we agreed to acquire certain other companies for amounts that are not material to our business. We expect these transactions to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchase common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Stock Options and Restricted Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We historically have granted only stock options to our employees. Substantially all restricted stock units included in the table presented below were assumed as a result of our acquisition of Sun. We recognize that options and restricted stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options and restricted stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2006 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options or restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of options and restricted stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average 65 Table of Contents outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised and restricted stock-based awards vest. Some of the outstanding options, which generally have a 10 year exercise period, have exercise prices higher than the current market price of our common stock. At February 28, 2010, 12% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At February 28, 2010, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised stock option and restricted stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 8.1%. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants of up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option and restricted stock-based award activity from June 1, 2006 through February 28, 2010 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at May 31, 2006 473 Options granted 260 Options and restricted stock-based awards assumed 91 Options exercised and restricted stock-based awards vested (358 ) Forfeitures and cancellations (61 ) Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding at February 28, 2010 405 Average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures 60 Average annualized stock repurchases (151 ) Shares outstanding at February 28, 2010 5,015 Basic weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2006 through February 28, 2010 5,102 Options and restricted stock-based awards outstanding as a percent of shares outstanding at February 28, 2010 8.1% In the money options and total stock restricted stock-based awards outstanding (based on the closing price of our common stock on the last trading day of our fiscal period presented) as a percent of shares outstanding at February 28, 2010 7.1% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and before stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2006 through February 28, 2010 1.2% Weighted average annualized options and restricted stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of forfeitures and after stock repurchases, as a percent of weighted average shares outstanding from June 1, 2006 through February 28, 2010 -1.8% Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to certain employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report. During the first nine months of fiscal 2010, we made our annual grant of stock options on July 2, 2009 and made or assumed other grants totaling 98 million shares, which were partially offset by forfeitures of 11 million shares. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report. 66 Table of Contents