Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included elsewhere in this Annual Report, provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments. Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977. Oracle Applications and Infrastructure Technologies Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure products and services, are based upon industry standards and are designed to be enterprise-grade, reliable, scalable and secure. These technologies are the building blocks of Oracle Cloud Services, our partners cloud services and our customers cloud IT environments. Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings are marketed and sold through our cloud and license and hardware businesses, and are delivered through the Oracle Cloud or a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models, including cloud-based, hybrid and on-premise deployments. We believe that our Oracle Cloud Services offerings represent opportunities for us to continue to expand our cloud and license business. We believe that our customers increasingly recognize the value of access to the latest versions of Oracle cloud-based applications and infrastructure capabilities via a lower cost, rapidly deployable, flexible and interoperable services model that Oracle provisions, manages, upgrades and maintains on our customers behalf. We believe that we can market and sell our Oracle Cloud Services offerings together to help new and existing customers migrate their extensive installed base of on-premise and cloud-based applications and infrastructure technologies to the Oracle Cloud and we believe we are in the early stages of what we expect will be a material migration of our existing Oracle customer base from on-premise applications and infrastructure products and services to the Oracle Cloud. During the past three fiscal years, customers with annual license support contracts that migrated to the Oracle Cloud contributed to the increase in annualized cloud services revenue by $4.3 billion. In addition, we also believe we can market our Oracle Cloud Services offerings to a broader ecosystem of small and medium-sized businesses, non-IT lines of business purchasers, developers and partners due to the highly available, intuitive design, ease-of-access, low touch and low cost characteristics of the Oracle Cloud. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud deployment models has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and license support 4 Table of Contents contracts to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. The proportion of our cloud services revenues relative to our total revenues has increased and our cloud services revenues represented 43%, 37% and 32% of our total revenues during fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We expect these trends to continue. Oracle Applications Technologies Oracle applications technologies are marketed, sold, delivered and supported through our cloud and license business. Our applications cloud services and license support revenues represented 44%, 46% and 47% of our total cloud services and license support revenues during fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Oracle applications offerings include our OCA offerings, which are available for customers as a subscription, and Oracle applications license offerings, which are available for customers to purchase for use within the Oracle Cloud and other cloud-based and on-premise IT environments, and include the option to purchase related license support. Our applications technologies are designed to reduce the risk, cost and complexity of our customers IT infrastructures, while supporting customer choice with flexible deployment models that readily enable performance, agility, compatibility and extendibility. The applications technologies that we offer are generally designed using industry standard architectures to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise and a broad range of industries, as well as to help customers differentiate and innovate in those processes unique to their industries or organizations. We also offer industry-specific applications, which provide solutions to customers in the automotive, communications, construction and engineering, consumer packaged goods, defense and intelligence, education, financial services, government, healthcare, high technology, hospitality, industrial manufacturing, life sciences, media and entertainment, oil and gas, professional services, public safety, restaurant, retail, travel and logistics, utilities and wholesale distribution industries, among others. Oracle Cloud Applications (OCA) The broad spectrum of OCA offerings provides customers with a choice of software applications delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we deploy and manage and that customers purchase by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our OCA offerings represent an industry leading business innovation platform leveraging OCI and include a broad suite of modular, next-generation cloud software applications spanning all core business functions, including, among others: Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP, which is designed to be a complete and integrated ERP solution to help organizations improve decision making and workforce productivity, and to optimize back-office operations by utilizing a single data and security model with a common user interface; Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Performance Management (EPM), which is designed to analyze financial performance, drive accurate and agile financial plans, optimize the financial close and consolidation process, streamline account reconciliation and satisfy an organizations reporting requirements; Oracle Fusion Cloud Supply Chain and Manufacturing Management (SCM), which is designed to help organizations create, optimize and digitize their supply chains; Oracle Fusion Cloud Human Capital Management (HCM), which is designed to help organizations find, develop and retain their talent, enable collaboration, provide workforce insights, improve business process efficiency and enable users to connect to an integrated suite of HCM applications from a broad range of devices; Oracle Fusion Sales, Service and Marketing, which are modules that are designed to be complete and integrated solutions to help organizations deliver consistent and personalized customer experiences across their customer channels, touch points and interactions; NetSuite Applications Suite, which is generally marketed to small to medium-sized organizations and is designed to be a unified, cloud-based applications suite to run a companys entire business and includes financials and ERP, customer relationship management, human resources, professional services and commerce, among others; and 5 Table of Contents Oracle Health applications, which are designed to enable medical professionals to deliver better healthcare to individual patients and communities. In addition, we offer several cloud-based industry solutions to address specific customer needs within certain industries including communications, construction and engineering, education, financial services, government, healthcare, hospitality, manufacturing and retail, among others. OCA offerings are built upon open industry standards such as SQL, Java and HTML5 for easier application accessibility, integration and development. Customers access OCA offerings utilizing common web browsers via a broad spectrum of devices. Customers, partners and other interested parties may elect to subscribe to Oracle applications and infrastructure training and certification programs through learning subscriptions offered by Oracle University. Learners generally have unlimited access to course content delivered during the subscription period. We believe that the comprehensiveness and breadth of our cloud applications offerings differentiate us from many of our competitors that offer more limited or specialized applications. Our cloud applications offerings are designed to support connected business processes in the cloud and are centered on an intuitive and conversational user experience, a responsive, open and flexible business core and a common data model. We believe Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP is a strategic suite of applications that is foundational to facilitating and extracting more business value out of the adoption of other OCA offerings, such as Oracle Fusion Cloud HCM and Oracle Fusion Cloud EPM, as customers realize the value of a common data model that spans across core business applications. We believe our cloud applications offerings together remove business boundaries between front- and back-office activities. Our cloud applications offerings are designed to deliver a secure data isolation architecture and flexible upgrades; self-service access controls for users; a Service-Oriented Architecture; built-in social, mobile and business insight capabilities (analytics); and a high performance, high availability infrastructure based on OCI. These cloud applications capabilities are designed to simplify customer IT environments, reduce time to implement and upgrade, enable agility, reduce risk and provide a user-friendly experience. Our cloud applications offerings incorporate advanced technologies such as AI, Internet-of-Things (IoT), machine learning, blockchain, digital assistants and advances in the human interface and how users interact with OCA offerings within a business context or to augment human capabilities to enhance productivity. Oracle Applications Licenses Customers have the ability to license Oracle Applications, including Oracle E-Business Suite, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards and Siebel applications, among others, for use within the Oracle Cloud or within their own cloud-based or on-premise IT environments. These licensed applications are designed to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise, including HCM, ERP, EPM, SCM, Customer Experience and industry-specific applications, as described above, among others. Oracle Infrastructure Technologies Oracle infrastructure technologies are marketed, sold and delivered through our cloud and license business and through our hardware business. Our infrastructure technologies are designed to be flexible, cost-effective, standards-based, secure and highly-performant to facilitate the development, deployment, integration, management and extension across an organizations cloud-based, on-premise and hybrid IT environments. Our cloud and license business infrastructure technologies include the Oracle Database and MySQL Database, the worlds most popular database management systems; Java, the computer industrys most widely-used language by professional software developers; and middleware, including development tools, among others. These infrastructure technologies are available through a subscription to our OCI offerings or through the purchase of a license and related license support, at the customers option, to run within the Oracle Cloud as a part of a customers cloud-based, on-premise or other IT environments. Our OCI offerings also include cloud-based compute, storage and networking capabilities, application development and cloud native services, among others, and new and innovative services such as AI Infrastructure offerings and emerging technologies such as generative AI, agentic AI, IoT and blockchain. 6 Table of Contents Our hardware business infrastructure technologies consist of hardware products and certain unique hardware-related software offerings, including Oracle Engineered Systems, enterprise servers, storage solutions, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, management software and related hardware support services. Our customers use Oracle hardware products and related offerings in their cloud-based, on-premise or hybrid IT environments to run their internal business operations and to deliver products and services to their customers. We design our infrastructure technologies to work in our customers on-premise IT environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. Our flexible and open approach also provides Oracle customers with a choice as to how they can utilize and deploy Oracle infrastructure technologies: through the use of Oracle Cloud offerings; on-premise in our customers data centers; or a hybrid combination of these two deployment models, such as in the Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer deployment models (described further below). We focus on the operation and integration of Oracle infrastructure technologies to make them easier to deploy, extend, interconnect, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve computing performance relative to our competitors offerings. For example, the Oracle Exadata Database Machine integrates multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, scalability, security and operational efficiency of Oracle Database workloads relative to our competitors products. Oracle Infrastructure Technologies Cloud and License Business Offerings Our infrastructure cloud services and license support revenues represented 56%, 54% and 53% of our total cloud services and license support revenues during fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) OCI offerings are designed to deliver our infrastructure technologies, including compute, storage and networking services, as a service. OCI offerings include our Oracle Autonomous Database offerings, among others, that Oracle runs, manages, upgrades and supports on behalf of the customer. We also offer a portfolio of specialized databases to address specific customer requirements, including MySQL, the worlds most popular open source database, as a cloud service with Oracle HeatWave MySQL. We typically charge a prepaid fee that is decremented as the OCI services are consumed by the customer over a stated time period. By utilizing OCI, customers can leverage the Oracle Cloud for enterprise-grade, high-performance, scalable, cost-effective and secure infrastructure technologies that are designed to be rapidly deployable and provide real-time elasticity while reducing the amount of time and resources normally consumed by IT processes within on-premise environments. OCI is designed to be differentiated from other cloud vendors to provide better security by separating cloud control code computers from customer compute nodes. Customers use OCI to build and operate new applications ranging from low-code to AI-powered cloud-native applications, to run new workloads and to move their existing Oracle or non-Oracle workloads to the Oracle Cloud from their on-premise data centers or other cloud-based IT environments, among other uses. We continue to invest in OCI to improve features and performance; to expand the catalog of cloud-based infrastructure tools and services that we provide; to increase the capacity and geographic footprint to deliver these services; to simplify the processes for migrating workloads to the Oracle Cloud; and to provide customers with the ability to run workloads across different IT environments, the Oracle Cloud as well as other third-party clouds in both hybrid and multicloud deployment models. Oracle customers and partners utilize OCI offerings for platform-related services that are based upon the Oracle Database, Java and Oracle Middleware, including open source and other tools for a variety of use cases across data management (including the use of Oracle Autonomous Database and Oracle HeatWave MySQL), applications development, integration, content management, analytics, IT management and governance, security and rapidly emerging technologies such as AI and machine learning. OCI AI offerings are designed to be embedded into customer applications for a variety of predictive use cases, including, among others, the servicing of machine parts that are at risk of failing, using generative AI for fault detection on an assembly line, improving customer experiences in the 7 Table of Contents purchasing of consumer products, the stocking of retailer store shelves, credit fraud detection and financial modeling to stay within a business forecasts. Oracle customers and partners also utilize OCI offerings for highly scalable, available and secure compute, storage and networking services. OCI compute services range from virtual machines to graphics processing unit-based offerings to bare metal servers and include options for high I/O workloads and high-performance computing to run traditional compute-intensive workloads and AI models. OCI storage offerings include block, file, object and archive storage services. In addition, our OCI offerings include networking, connectivity and edge services that help connect customers data centers and third-party clouds with our OCI services for the creation of distributed and multicloud architectures. In addition to the full suite of OCI offerings delivered by Oracle public cloud regions across the globe and by our multicloud partnerships, we provide our customers with flexibility by offering certain OCI services within a customers own data center, such as: Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer, which is designed to enable customers to run Oracle Autonomous Database and Oracle Exadata Database Service securely in their own data centers behind their firewalls while having the services managed by Oracle; OCI Dedicated Region, which is designed to enable customers to bring a self-contained OCI instance into their data centers while accessing a substantial portfolio of OCI and OCA offerings; OCI Sovereign Cloud, which is designed to enable customers to utilize OCI services while addressing restrictions imposed upon customers that operate in certain regulated industries, entities or jurisdictions. This capability now also allows us to offer sovereign AI to customers who want the latest in AI innovations while operating within their regulatory environments; Oracle Alloy, which is engineered to enable partners to control the commercial and customer experience to address their specific market needs for cloud services; and Oracle Compute Cloud@Customer and Oracle Roving Edge Infrastructure, which are designed to enable customers to access cloud computing and storage services at the edge of networks and in generally disconnected locations in order to accelerate deployment of cloud workloads outside of the data center. Oracle Autonomous Database Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to deliver performance and scale for enterprise database workloads with automated database operations and policy- and AI- and machine learning-driven optimization by combining certain Oracle infrastructure technologies, including the Oracle Database, OCI, Oracle Exadata and native AI and machine learning capabilities, among others. Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to be self-driving, automating routine database administration tasks, including maintenance, tuning, patching, scaling, security and backup. Oracle Autonomous Database is engineered to lower labor costs and reduce human error while using machine learning-driven diagnostics for fault prediction and error handling and is also engineered to provide automatic threat detection and remediation. Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to enable on-demand, automatic scaling of database resources combined with consumption-based pricing in order to help organizations lower costs by paying only for resources used. The integration of Oracle Autonomous Database with other Oracle Cloud services, such as Java Cloud and the Oracle APEX low-code application development service, along with open interfaces and integrations, is designed to provide developers with a modern, open platform to develop new and innovative cloud-native applications. For analytics workloads, Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to provide customers with easy-to-use analytics tools and machine learning capabilities that are accelerated using Oracle Exadatas scale-out infrastructure and work with Oracle Analytics Cloud and third-party analytics tools. We believe Oracle Autonomous Databases built-in developer capabilities and automation can enable organizations to quickly deploy new data marts and data warehouses; move existing ones to the cloud; and create data lakes. All of these capabilities are designed to enable 8 Table of Contents organizations to gain new insights into customer behavior, more accurately anticipate future demand, align workforce deployment with business activity forecasts and accelerate the pace of operations, among other benefits. For transaction processing workloads, Oracle Autonomous Database is designed to enable organizations to securely run a mix of high-performance transactions of ranging complexity. It is also designed to enable organizations to efficiently support dynamic workloads, conduct real-time analysis of transactional data and lower administration costs. Oracle Autonomous Database is available on OCI for shared or dedicated deployments and on-premise with Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer and OCI Dedicated Region. In addition, Oracle Autonomous Database is available on other hyperscale cloud IT environments, such as Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. We offer advanced AI functionality, such as AI Vector Search and Select AI, in our recent release of Oracle Database 23ai, which enables customers to leverage their data for advanced generative AI functionality without needing to duplicate and maintain such data securely in other databases or external systems, while also providing customers with an option to utilize generative AI large language models (LLMs) of their choice. Oracle Database Licenses Oracle Database is the worlds most popular enterprise database and is designed to enable reliable and secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data. Oracle Database is licensed throughout the world by businesses and organizations of all sizes for a multitude of purposes, including, among others, for use within the Oracle Cloud to deliver our OCA and OCI offerings; for use as a cloud license by a number of cloud-based vendors as a component of their respective cloud offerings; for packaged and custom applications for transaction processing; and for data warehousing and business intelligence. Oracle Database may be deployed in various IT environments, including Oracle Public Cloud, Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer, OCI Dedicated Region, Oracle Alloy, other cloud-based IT environments and on-premise data centers, among others. Oracle Database Enterprise Edition is available with a number of optional add-on products to address specific customer requirements. As described above, customers may elect to purchase license support for Oracle Database licenses. We also offer Oracle Database as a cloud service, such as with Oracle Exadata Database Service and Oracle Base Database Service. Oracle Middleware Licenses We license our Oracle Middleware, which is a broad family of integrated application infrastructure software, for use in various IT environments. Oracle Middleware is designed to enable customers to design and integrate Oracle and non-Oracle business applications, automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence. Built with Oracles Java technology platform, Oracle Middleware products are designed to be a foundation for custom, packaged and composite applications, thereby simplifying and reducing time-to-deployment. Oracle Middleware is designed to protect customers IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle databases, middleware and applications software through an open architecture and adherence to industry standards. In addition, Oracle Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which enables developers to flexibly build once and deploy applications globally across websites, portals and cloud-based applications utilizing a variety of IT environments. Among our other middleware license offerings, we license development tools, such as Oracle WebLogic Server for Java application development, and Oracle Identity Manager, which automates user identity provisioning and allows enterprises to manage the end-to-end lifecycle of user identities across all enterprise resources. Organizations may elect to purchase license support, as described above, for Oracle Middleware licenses. We also offer certain of our middleware capabilities as a part of our OCI offerings. Java Licenses Java is the worlds most popular programming language among professional developers and is used to deliver cloud development and deployment services, microservices, analytics, data management, blockchain, security and continuous integration tools for numerous platforms and technologies, including websites, enterprise and consumer applications, embedded devices and large-scale systems. Java is designed to enable developers to write software on 9 Table of Contents a single platform and run it on many other different platforms, independent of operating system and hardware architecture. Java has been adopted by both independent software vendors (ISVs) that have built their products using Java and by enterprise organizations building custom applications or consuming Java-based ISV products. Customers generally purchase Java offerings through subscriptions that include licenses and support services. Oracle License Support We provide customers the option to purchase license support contracts in connection with the purchase of Oracle applications and infrastructure licenses. Substantially all of our customers opt to purchase license support contracts when they purchase these licenses to run within the Oracle Cloud or other cloud-based and on-premise IT environments. We believe our license support offerings protect and enhance our customers investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies because they provide proactive and personalized support services and unspecified license upgrades and enhancements during the term of the support period. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements, which current license support customers are entitled to receive. Our license support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase the license, are typically one year in duration and are generally billed to the customer annually in advance. Oracle Infrastructure Technologies Hardware Business Offerings Oracle infrastructure technologies include a broad selection of hardware products and related hardware support services to power various IT environments. Our hardware products and services include offerings designed for specific industries, including the communications, food and beverage, healthcare, hospitality and retail industries, among others. We also offer a portfolio of operating systems, including Oracle Linux and Oracle Solaris, virtualization and other hardware-related software and a range of management technologies and products, including Oracle Enterprise Manager and the Oracle Cloud Observability and Management platform. These products are designed to help customers efficiently operate complex IT environments, including both end users and service providers cloud IT environments. Our primary hardware offerings are further described below. Oracle Engineered Systems Oracle Engineered Systems are core to our cloud-based and on-premise data center infrastructure offerings. Oracle Engineered Systems are pre-built products, combining multiple unique Oracle technology components, that may include database, storage, operating system, virtualization and management software with server, storage, networking hardware and other technologies. Oracle Engineered Systems are designed to deliver improved performance, scalability, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors products; to be upgraded effectively and efficiently; and to simplify maintenance cycles and improve security by providing a single solution for patching. For example, Oracle Exadata Database Machine is an integrated platform that is optimized for achieving higher performance, scalability and availability at a lower cost by combining Oracle Database, storage and operating system software with Oracle server, storage and networking hardware. We offer our Oracle Engineered Systems through flexible deployment options, including on-premise, as a cloud offering in OCI, as a platform for Oracle Database services in Oracle multicloud partner data centers and as a hybrid cloud offering in customer data centers. Oracle Servers and Storage We offer a wide range of Oracle server products that are designed for mission-critical enterprise environments and that are key components of our Oracle Engineered Systems and Oracle Cloud offerings. We have two families of server products: those using x86 microprocessors and those based on the Oracle SPARC microprocessor. We also offer Oracle storage products, which combine flash, disk and server technologies with optimized software and unique integrations with the Oracle Database offering greater performance and efficiency and lower total cost relative to our competitors storage products. Certain of our storage products provide integration with Oracle Cloud Services for backup and archiving. 10 Table of Contents Oracle Hardware Support Oracle hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products such as for Oracle operating systems and firmware. These offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. We continue to evolve hardware support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of net hardware products fees. Oracle Services We offer services to help customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our expertise in Oracle technologies, extensive experience and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings substantially include, among others: consulting services, which are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our cloud and license offerings, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, implementation, integration, application development, security assessments and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, which involves the use of consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers; and advanced customer services, which are support services provided by Oracle to a customer to enable increased performance and higher availability of a customers Oracle products and services. Oracle Cloud Operations Oracle Cloud Operations deliver our Oracle Cloud Services to customers through a secure, reliable, scalable, enterprise grade cloud infrastructure platform managed by Oracle employees within a global network of data centers, which we refer to as the Oracle Cloud. The Oracle Cloud enables secure and isolated cloud-based instances for each of our customers to access the functionality of Oracle Cloud Services via a broad spectrum of devices. Oracle Cloud Operations leverage automated software tools to enable the rapid delivery of the latest cloud technology capabilities to the Oracle Cloud as they become available and provide Oracle customers access to the latest Oracle releases. We have invested in the rapid expansion of the Oracle Cloud by increasing existing data center capacity and adding data centers in new geographic locations to meet current and expected customer demand. We expect this trend will continue. Manufacturing We rely on third-party manufacturing partners to produce most of our hardware products that we market and sell to customers and utilize internally to deliver Oracle Cloud Services, and we distribute most of our hardware products from these partners facilities. Our manufacturing processes are substantially based on standardization of components across product types and centralization of assembly and distribution centers. Production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of suppliers. For most of our hardware products, we have existing alternative sources of supply or such sources are readily available. However, we do rely on sole sources for certain hardware components. We monitor and evaluate potential risks of disruption within our supply chain operations. Refer to Risk Factors included in Item 1A within this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our hardware products and the related risks to our businesses. Sales and Marketing We directly market and sell our cloud, license, hardware, support and services offerings globally to businesses of many sizes and in many industries, government agencies and educational institutions. We also market and sell our offerings globally through indirect channels. 11 Table of Contents In the United States (U.S.), our sales and services employees are based throughout the country. Outside the U.S., our international subsidiaries sell, support and service our offerings in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our offerings. Our international operations subject us to certain risks, which are more fully described in Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Annual Report. A summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We also market our product offerings worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle Partner Network. The Oracle Partner Network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including cloud and license, hardware and services suppliers, system integrators and resellers that deliver innovative solutions and services based upon and in conjunction with our product offerings. By offering our partners access to our product offerings, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle Partner Network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. Research and Development We develop the substantial majority of our products and services offerings internally utilizing the skills and diversity of a global workforce. In addition, we have extended our products and services offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. However, although we believe that our patents have value, neither our business as a whole nor any of our principal businesses are materially dependent on a single patent. Rapid technological advances in cloud, software and hardware development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions, offerings and enhancements characterize the markets in which we compete. We plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to develop new products and services offerings, as well as maintain and improve our current offerings. Human Capital Resources At Oracle, our success is driven by the quality of our people, who we believe are among the best and brightest in the industry. We strive to attract and retain talented employees, to support our employees success and well-being and to foster a culture of inclusion where everyone is empowered to have a voice in driving innovation. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee) is responsible for reviewing and monitoring matters related to human capital management, including talent acquisition and retention. 12 Table of Contents Workforce As of May 31, 2025, we employed approximately 162,000 full-time employees, of which approximately 58,000 were employed in the U.S. and approximately 104,000 were employed internationally. Our approximate employee counts by lines of business are: 29,000 Cloud services and license support operations 37,000 Services 31,000 Sales and marketing 50,000 Research and development 3,000 Hardware 12,000 General and administrative The average tenure of our employees is approximately eight years and 30% of our employees have been employed with Oracle for ten or more years. None of our employees in the U.S. are represented by labor unions; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries, labor unions or workers councils represent some of our employees. Employee Experience In order to attract and retain high quality talent, Oracle strives to deliver a great employee experience, anchored by an inclusive culture where employees can thrive, engage in meaningful work, leverage growth opportunities and focus on their well-being. We support employee well-being from multiple dimensions, including flexible benefits, economic, health, development, lifestyle and compensation. We believe that one of the primary reasons candidates join Oracle is for the opportunity to develop their career and participate in our global inclusive culture. We have programs and resources to help our employees explore, build and achieve their career goals. By promoting an inclusive culture that leverages a broad range of perspectives and fosters a sense of belonging, we inspire and engage our workforce to solve complex problems to help our customers across the globe. We promote regular career conversations between leaders and employees, focused on helping employees identify and take steps to grow their careers. Our Talent Review process, which runs on Oracle Fusion Cloud HCM, provides the mechanism for leaders to review and discuss opportunities and action plans to develop employees. 29% of our open non-entry level positions were filled internally in fiscal 2025, providing growth opportunities and retaining critical knowledge and talent. We believe that helping our employees learn and apply new skills is key to retaining and engaging them. It is also critical to our ability to innovate and rapidly evolve. We believe that our easily accessible learning resources enable us to improve our employees learning experience and better measure learning consumption. Oracle employees received more than 4.7 million hours of training in fiscal 2025 and accessed online learning content at an average rate of approximately 2.5 million views per month. Our employees take advantage of instructor-led classes, virtual library content and online learning resources on sales, business, product, market/industry, leadership, technical and compliance skills, well-being and personal development related topics. Leaders Who Listen We believe that an important aspect of creating a workforce that supports employee, customer and business success is listening to employee feedback. We share the results of our annual employee engagement survey with leaders, including members of our Board of Directors (the Board). In fiscal 2025, 83% of our employees participated in the annual survey. Leaders listen to employees, evaluate feedback and prioritize actions to enhance employee, business and customer success. Making a Difference Each year, through our volunteering and giving programs, Oracle employees donate tens of thousands of volunteer hours and millions of dollars (matched by Oracle) to a wide variety of causes. Oracle and our employees also rise to the occasion in times of crisis. 13 Table of Contents During fiscal 2025, Oracle donated tens of millions of dollars to advance education, promote health, strengthen communities and protect the environment. We also have two nonprofit foundations that focus on children and young people. Oracle Health Foundation makes pediatric case grants available globally that fund medical care ranging from hearing aids to major surgeries. Oracle Education Foundation teaches young people how to innovate, solve problems with technology and shape a better future. Since 2014, Oracle has partnered with Design Tech High School, a public charter school for which we built a home at our Redwood Shores, California campus in 2016. Seasonality and Cyclicality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the IT industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. See Cloud and License Business in Item 7 of this Annual Report for more information regarding the seasonality and cyclicality of the revenues, expenses and margins of our cloud and license business, which is our largest business. Competition We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change. Our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their IT environments. Our enterprise cloud, license and hardware offerings compete directly with certain offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, including Adobe Systems Incorporated, Alphabet Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Intel Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Salesforce, Inc. and SAP SE, as well as other companies like Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and Workday, Inc. In addition, due to the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments, new technologies and new and growing competitors frequently emerge to challenge our offerings. Our competitors range from companies offering broad IT solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. In addition, as we expand into new market segments, we face increased competition as we compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. For example, following our acquisition of Cerner Corporation, we also face competition from large healthcare IT providers such as Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Arcadia Solutions, athenahealth, Inc., Epic Systems Corporation and InterSystems Corporation, among others. Moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actionsincluding acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures or repositioning of product lineswhich invite even greater competition in one or more product offering categories. Key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of use, speed to production and quality of technical support. Our products and services sales and the relative strength of our products and services versus those of our competitors are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other factors: market adoption of cloud-based IT offerings, including Oracle Cloud Services offerings; our ability to develop AI technologies and features and to have access to AI technologies of competitors; the ease of deployment, use, transacting for and maintenance of our products and services offerings; compatibility between Oracle products and services deployed within local IT environments and public cloud IT environments, including our Oracle Cloud environments; the broader platform competition between our industry standard Java technology platform and the .NET programming environment of Microsoft; operating system competition among our Oracle Solaris and Linux operating systems, with alternatives including Microsofts Windows Server and other UNIX and Linux operating systems; 14 Table of Contents the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers; products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their IT staff; products, features and functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and the attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers. For more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Governmental Regulation We operate globally and are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. For information about governmental regulations applicable to our business, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We use our Investor Relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, information regarding our environmental policy and global sustainability initiatives and solutions are also available on our website at www.oracle.com/social-impact. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. The references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Information About Our Executive Officers Our executive officers are listed below: Name Office(s) Lawrence J. Ellison Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technology Officer Safra A. Catz Chief Executive Officer and Director Jeffrey O. Henley Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Clayton Magouyrk President, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Michael Sicilia President, Industries Stuart Levey Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer Maria Smith Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Ellison, 80, has been our Chairman of the Board and Chief Technology Officer since September 2014. He served as our Chief Executive Officer from June 1977, when he founded Oracle, until September 2014. He has served as a Director since June 1977. He previously served as our Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004. Ms. Catz, 63, has been our Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. She served as our President from January 2004 to September 2014, our Chief Financial Officer most recently from April 2011 until September 2014 and a Director since October 2001. She was previously our Chief Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and our Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. Prior to being named our President, she held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. She previously served as a director of The Walt Disney Company. Mr. Henley, 80, has served as our Vice Chairman of the Board since September 2014. He previously served as our Chairman of the Board from January 2004 to September 2014 and has served as a Director since June 1995. He served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004. 15 Table of Contents Mr. Magouyrk, 38, has been our President, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure since June 2025. From December 2019 to June 2025, he served as an Executive Vice President in various roles, including Executive Vice President, Cloud Infrastructure and Executive Vice President, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Engineering. Prior to being named Executive Vice President, Mr. Magouyrk held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 2014. Prior to joining Oracle, he was a senior engineer at Amazon and Amazon Web Services from 2008 to 2014. Mr. Sicilia, 54, has been our President, Industries since June 2025. From October 2019 to June 2025, he served as an Executive Vice President in various roles, including Executive Vice President, Industries and Executive Vice President, Global Business Units. Prior to being named Executive Vice President, Mr. Sicilia held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 2009. Prior to joining Oracle, he was Chief Technology Officer at Primavera Systems and held other positions from 1993 to 2008. Mr. Levey, 62, has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer since October 2022. Prior to joining Oracle, Mr. Levey served as Chief Executive Officer of Diem Association from August 2020 until June 2022, and as Chief Legal Officer of HSBC Holdings, plc from January 2012 to August 2020. Ms. Smith, 59, has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since December 2022. She served as our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller from December 2020 to December 2022, as our Senior Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from September 2017 to December 2020, and as our Vice President, Global Controllers Organization and Mergers and Acquisitions from November 2012 to September 2017. She held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our discussion in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. Business and Operational Risks We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products and services, integrating acquired products and services and enhancing our existing products and services. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition, changing delivery models, evolving standards in communications infrastructure, increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services, but if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our license, hardware or cloud offerings or renew license support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. Renewals of these contracts are important to our future success. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. In addition, our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; infrastructure costs to deliver new or enhanced products and services take longer or result in greater costs than anticipated; supply chain costs, energy costs or other costs to develop, produce or distribute our products and services result in greater costs than anticipated; we are unable to accurately anticipate, plan for and manage future data center capacity needs in a timely manner to meet current or expected customer demand; we fail to meet our contractual service level commitments; there is a delay in market acceptance of and difficulty in transitioning new and existing customers to new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services; sanctions, tariffs, export controls, geopolitical instability and related market disruptions or other regulatory, legislative or other trade and non-tariff barriers, including retaliatory measures, impede or prevent us from serving certain customers or restrict our customers from operating in specific jurisdictions; inflation, trade policy, geopolitical conditions and other macroeconomic factors reduce customer demand for our products and services or cause us to be unable to meet current or expected customer demand; there are changes in IT trends that we do not adequately anticipate or timely address with our product development efforts; we do not optimize complementary product lines and services in a timely manner; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. In addition, our profitability and revenues could be adversely impacted if we lose one or more of our key customers for any reason, including as a result of any of the factors discussed above. Any such loss could also limit or reduce our growth in future periods. Our AI products may not operate as anticipated, which could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and profitability. Machine learning and AI, including generative AI, agentic AI and LLMs, are increasingly driving innovations in technology, and AI technology and services are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources to build and support our AI products. In addition, we rely on partners and suppliers to produce some of our AI products. If we are unable to introduce new AI products or if our AI products fail to operate as anticipated or as well as competing products or otherwise do not meet customer needs, or if our competitors AI products achieve higher market acceptance than ours, we may fail to 17 Table of Contents recoup our investments in AI and our business and reputation may be harmed. Further, if we do not continue to invest significant resources to develop and support our AI products, we may fall behind technological developments and evolving industry standards, which would likewise harm our ability to compete. In addition, AI technologies are rapidly changing and present evolving legal, regulatory and ethical issues, including claims of bias, discrimination, a perceived lack of transparency, as well as sometimes unpredictable behaviors or improper use of copyrighted or other protected material, such as personal and patient health information, any of which could expose us or our customers to reputational or legal risk and inhibit adoption of our AI products. Regulatory uncertainty, including the lack of comprehensive federal legislation and a patchwork of existing and proposed frameworks and regulatory initiatives in numerous jurisdictions, may expose us to compliance challenges and uncertainties. Our failure to adapt to these changes, or any failure by our employees, contractors, partners, suppliers or agents to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our AI products or our related policies and procedures, could result in legal, financial and reputational consequences including, but not limited to, being required to adjust or limit our product offerings or our use of AI in certain jurisdictions to comply with new and evolving AI laws and regulations. If we do not successfully execute our Oracle Cloud strategy, including our offerings of Oracle Cloud Services, our revenues and profitability may decline. We provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via a variety of deployment models, including via our cloud-based OCA and OCI offerings. As these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of various cloud offering models by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and license offerings. If we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. As customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our cloud license and on-premise license and hardware product arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. Customers predominantly purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis, and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably or as services are consumed over the terms of the subscriptions. Consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statements of operations. This is in contrast to revenues associated with our license and hardware product arrangements, which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses and hardware products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate customer transitions from or be able to sufficiently backfill reduced customer demand for our license, hardware and support offerings relative to the expected increase in customer adoption of and demand for our Oracle Cloud Services, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to secure data center capacity at affordable rates or do not accurately plan for and manage our infrastructure capacity requirements, our profitability may decline. As a part of our Oracle Cloud strategy, we plan our investment levels based on estimates of future revenues and customer demand and future anticipated rates of growth. In recent periods, our cloud services and license support expenses have grown to meet current and expected demand for our cloud offerings, including investments to increase our existing data center capacity and to establish data centers in new geographic locations. In connection with these investments, we entered, and expect to continue to enter, into long-term lease commitments with third-party data center providers and other significant commitments with suppliers of chips and other data center infrastructure. If we underestimate customer demand or our data center capacity needs, we may face shortages of available infrastructure, limiting our ability to support customer growth and potentially causing us to lose business to competitors. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand or our data center capacity needs, we could be locked into multi-year commitments for excess data center space, resulting in lower profitability and cash flows because our third-party data center vendors generally require us to pay significant contract termination fees to early exit such obligations. Data centers in geographies that we rely on may also be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, we do not control the operation of these third-party data centers, and they may suffer interruptions in service from events beyond our control, including from acts of government, natural events, power loss, break-ins or misconduct by those third parties. We have faced, and may continue to face, rising costs for data center energy demands. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide equipment and components required to outfit these data centers on a timely basis. Ongoing or future delays or the inability to meet customer demand could cause the loss of additional sales, delay our revenue recognition or increase our costs, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our business. We typically depreciate these assets over their estimated useful lives, which could be shortened should our cloud strategies change, which could adversely affect our profitability. 18 Table of Contents Our products and services may not function properly if we experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings.Despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, license and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding, manufacturing or configuration errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. The detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, license or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our cloud, license or hardware offerings, or errors embedded in third-party software products or services incorporated into our own products, can affect their ability to properly function, integrate or operate with other cloud, license or hardware offerings; result in service interruptions, delays or outages of our cloud offerings; create security vulnerabilities in our products or services; delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services; and adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. If we experience any of these errors, or if there are delays in releasing our cloud, license or hardware offerings or new versions of these offerings, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. In addition, we run Oracles business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. Therefore, any flaws could affect our and our customers abilities to conduct business operations and to ensure accuracy in financial processes and reporting, and may result in unanticipated costs and interruptions. Enterprise customers rely on our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses, and errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. If we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. Our enterprise cloud, license and hardware offerings compete directly with certain offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, many of which have well-developed customer bases and strong brand recognition. In addition, due to the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments, new technologies and new, agile and growing competitors frequently emerge to challenge our offerings. We believe many vendors spend amounts in excess of what Oracle spends to develop and market applications and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence, compute, storage and networking products, among others, which compete with Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings. In addition, use of our competitors technologies can influence a customers purchasing decision or create an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize or migrate to Oracle products and services. For example, we offer our customers multicloud services whereby our customers can combine cloud services from multiple clouds with the goal of optimizing cost, functionality and performance. OCIs multicloud services work with a number of our competitors products, including Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud. This multicloud strategy could lead our customers to migrate away from our cloud offerings to our competitors products or limit their purchases of additional Oracle products, either of which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our competitors may also seek to attract or retain customers who might otherwise purchase our products and services by offering competing products and services on terms that we may not generally find acceptable. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices, provide debt or equity financing to customers or form strategic alliances with other companies. Mergers, consolidations or alliances among our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by large companies, may result in increased competition. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices, introduce pricing models and offerings or offer other terms that are less favorable to us to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce revenues and margins and could adversely affect operating results. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud and license, hardware and services offerings, and we have incurred increased cloud delivery expenses as we expand our cloud operations and update our infrastructure, all of which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our license support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. Our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products, changes in customer demand or increased competition, our revenues could decrease. 19 Table of Contents Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. Our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues related to our applications and infrastructure offerings. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services or resolve issues efficiently. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or even the perception that our support is insufficient, could adversely affect our reputation, hinder our ability to sell and renew our applications and infrastructure offerings to existing and prospective customers, and negatively impact our business, operating results and financial position. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing our various product offerings is expensive and the return on investment is often long. An important element of our corporate strategy is to commit significant resources to research and development, as well as related product and service opportunities, both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from acquired companies. Accelerated product and service introductions and short lifecycles require high levels of research and development spending, which could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that continued investment in research and development is essential to maintaining our competitive position. However, our investments in research and development may fail to yield competitive products and services and we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Our cloud offerings and hardware offerings are complex, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, including the sourcing of technologies and components, the results of these businesses will suffer.We depend on suppliers to develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products that we market and sell to our customers and that we use as a part of our cloud infrastructure to deliver our cloud offerings, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. Our supply chain operations are affected by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest (such as the tensions between China and Taiwan), public health crises, changes to trade laws or regulations, tariffs and customs controls, port stoppages, shipping interruptions or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, and other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. If disruption caused by one or more of the risks described above occurs, our cloud and license business and hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Supply chain shortages have in some instances resulted in increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. In addition, we have in some instances responded to such shortages by committing to higher purchases and balances of hardware products that we market and sell to our customers and that we use as a part of our cloud infrastructure to deliver our cloud offerings, relative to our historical positions. For example, industry supply capacity for AI accelerators, including graphics processing units, is competitive, and we at times have to accept less favorable terms with suppliers to avoid supply constraints. While this permits us to secure cloud infrastructure capacity, it has increased excess and obsolescence risk of such hardware products and could adversely impact our profitability and cash flows. We expect these factors will continue to impact us in the future. We outsource most of our manufacturing, assembly, delivery and technology of, and certain component designs for, our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the U.S. From time to time, these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products on a timely or cost-effective basis, including as a result of changes to trade laws or regulations, tariffs, sanctions and export or import controls. Ongoing or future delays or cost increases in manufacturing could cause the loss of additional sales, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our cloud and license business and hardware business. These challenges could arise if we alter our manufacturing strategies, suppliers, or locations. Our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. We periodically restructure or make other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, changes in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. These types of restructurings have resulted, and may in the future result, in increased restructuring costs and temporarily reduced productivity while employees adjust to the restructuring. These types of restructurings may also lead to shortages of sufficiently skilled employees in certain roles, loss of valuable institutional knowledge and damage to employee morale and retention. 20 Table of Contents Hiring freezes or slowdowns can also result in decreased productivity while existing employees take on additional roles and responsibilities, and may also lead to a shortage of sufficiently skilled employees in certain roles. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth, resource redeployment or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within our expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings, and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. We rely on hiring qualified employees and retaining our senior management, including our Chairman of the Board, Chief Technology Officer and founder; our Chief Executive Officer; other executive team members; and key employees. In the technology industry, especially in the AI field, competition for highly skilled business, product development and technical personnel is intense and ongoing. We may also face rising compensation costs without corresponding gains in productivity or sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment agreements with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and any future departures may be disruptive to our operations. To manage expenses, we hire personnel in countries where advanced technical and other expertise are available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We are experiencing increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which has affected our employee retention efforts and increased our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. In addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. Our general compensation program includes restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance-based equity, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price stagnates or declines, our ability to retain or attract employees may be harmed. We continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. Any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. There are risks associated with our cloud and license and hardware indirect sales channels which could affect our future operating results. Our cloud and license and hardware indirect channel networks consist primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and ISVs. Our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if: our contracts with channel participants were terminated or our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate; any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant; the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken; or the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. We may not successfully maintain, expand or develop our relationships with channel participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. In addition, we do not control channel participants, some of whom operate in jurisdictions with elevated corruption risks. Our compliance policies and procedures may fail to prevent or detect violations of anti-corruption or other laws, and channel participants may violate such laws, all of which could subject us to litigation or regulatory risk and result in liability. Acquisitions present many risks and we may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. We regularly review and consider strategic acquisitions of companies, products, services and technologies as a part of our corporate strategy, and we expect to continue making acquisitions in the future. However, our strategic acquisition program carries several risks, including but not limited to: business disruption and management distraction due to acquisition, transition or integration activities; challenges in managing acquired technologies or lines of business, entering new markets where we have no, or limited, direct prior experience or market positions, or retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; 21 Table of Contents acquisitions that do not meet strategic expectations, including due to difficulties integrating acquired companies, negative impacts from imposed business practices or different go-to-market strategies, and the risk of overpaying or failing to realize expected returns on our investments, each or all of which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition, including intangible assets and goodwill; negative financial impacts from (1) assumed claims or liabilities; (2) assumed costly or disruptive pre-existing contractual relationships; and (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired companys business practices; failure to identify or accurately assess significant liabilities or shortcomings prior to finalization of an acquisition; failure to realize expected revenue growth from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including (1) more customers than expected declining to renew or terminating their contracts; (2) difficulty selling acquired products or service offerings to our customer base; (3) acquired customers declining to purchase our technologies due to differing business practices; or (4) contract models utilized by an acquired company conflicting with our revenue recognition methods; integration difficulties, including aligning acquired compliance programs, technologies, products, services, supply chain operations, environmental practices or infrastructure with our existing lines of business; product and service inconsistencies across multiple product lines or services offerings, leading to customer confusion and delays; higher than anticipated costs related to supporting, developing and delivering acquired products or services, expanding general and administrative functions for new business models or complying with complex regulations applicable to an acquired business; labor challenges, including difficulties obtaining timely approvals from works councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws; regulatory and judicial challenges, including delays or restrictions from governmental authorities under foreign direct investment, foreign subsidy, competition and antitrust laws, potentially requiring asset divestitures, other concessions or a termination of the acquisition process; limitations on our potential other uses for our cash; and financial constraints that may require us to incur additional debt to pay for acquisitions or delay or not proceed with an acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. We are subject to risks with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. We are subject to evolving, and sometimes conflicting, laws, regulations, policies and stakeholder expectations relating to matters beyond our core products and services, including ESG matters, such as environmental sustainability, climate change, human capital and workforce matters. The Nomination and Governance Committee of our Board oversees and periodically reviews our ESG programs and our management evaluates if climate or environmental risks could significantly impact our core or strategic business functions, including service delivery and support, product development and deployment, supply chain management, facility operations, employee recruitment and retention or brand reputation. Any failure to identify and address these risks could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial performance and growth. Further, in an effort to be responsive to customer, employee and other stakeholder interests and expectations, we publicly disclose certain ESG-related goals and statistics. If we fail to meet these goals, or are perceived as failing to meet our ESG goals, our revenues, reputation and brand may be harmed. In addition, views on ESG and related matters diverge within and among different stakeholder groups, including stockholders, customers and employees, as well as government actors. Efforts to meet evolving and increasingly divergent stakeholder expectations on ESG and related matters may place a strain on our employees and systems, and if we are targeted by those who disagree with our public positions on ESG and related issues, or if we do not otherwise successfully manage ESG-related expectations across our stakeholders, it could erode stakeholder trust, impact our reputation or subject us to litigation, which could adversely affect our business and reputation. 22 Table of Contents Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks If our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our IT systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the IT services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, any of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. Our products and services, including Oracle Cloud Services, store, retrieve, process and manage third-party data, such as our customers data, as well as our own data. We believe that Oracle has been and is a target for computer hackers, cyberattacks and other perpetrators or threat actors because Oracle stores and processes large amounts of data, including sensitive data such as health sciences (including patient health information), financial services, retail, hospitality, telecommunications and government data. We and our third-party vendors are regularly subject to attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation-states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers, partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems. Such malicious attacks can lead, and have led, to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of Oracle or our customers. Attempts of this nature typically involve IT-related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other credentials to gain access to our data, our customers, suppliers or partners data or the IT systems of Oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. Our products and services, including our Oracle Cloud Services, may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee, contractor or supplier error or malfeasance. When a cyberattack or other security event or incident results in unauthorized access to, or modification or exfiltration of, our customers or suppliers data, other external data, our own data or our IT systems, or if the services we provide to our customers are disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have (or are perceived as having) security vulnerabilities, we have incurred and could incur significant expenses and could suffer substantial damage to our brand and reputation. If our customers lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, they may reduce or terminate their spending with us. In addition, cyberattacks and other security events or incidents have resulted and could result in: significant investigation and remediation costs; loss or destruction of data; operational disruptions; inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data; lawsuits; indemnity obligations; regulatory investigations and financial penalties; and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs for customer notification and fraud monitoring. Our remediation efforts may not be successful. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage IT systems, constantly evolve, grow more complex over time, and often are not detected until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent such techniques. Our internal IT systems continue to evolve and we are often early adopters of new technologies. However, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with emerging threats. We may not detect or confirm any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach. Our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on a wide variety of third-party products, components and services. If a security vulnerability exists in one of these components, a targeted exploit could lead to increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. We also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. While we make significant efforts to address any IT security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within Oracle. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to privacy and data protection. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex and stringent, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. In addition, U.S. federal and state as well as foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the 23 Table of Contents ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer (including across national borders) and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. We are also subject to data privacy and other related regulations governing the healthcare industry and patient information, including but not limited to regulations governing electronic health data transmissions, the processing of patient information, healthcare fraud and healthcare information sharing. Following the European Unions (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the rate of global consideration and adoption of privacy laws has increased, giving rise to more global jurisdictions in which regulatory inquiries and audits may be requested of Oracle, and if we are not deemed to be in compliance, could result in enforcement actions and/or fines. This is true in the U.S. where, for example, a number of states have enacted privacy laws, the U.S. Congress has been considering several privacy and security-related bills at the federal level, the federal government is pursuing a range of cybersecurity initiatives pertaining to critical infrastructure companies and government contractors, and a number of other state legislatures have passed or are considering privacy laws. Regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. The GDPR provides for monetary penalties of up to 20 million, or up to 4% of an organizations worldwide revenue of the preceding financial year, whichever is greater. These penalties can be significant. For example, a U.S.-based technology company was fined 1.2 billion for alleged GDPR violations in 2023. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission continues to fine companies for unfair and deceptive data protection practices, and these fines may increase in size. Taken together, the laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase the size of potential fines related to data protection, and our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we have implemented contracts, diligence programs, policies and procedures designed to address compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, suppliers, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. Additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products and services. For example, numerous jurisdictions, including the EU, have passed or are considering laws and regulations that would impose additional data privacy and other compliance requirements on the use of AI and could require us to adjust or limit our product offerings in such jurisdictions. We make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with U.S. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. Third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, third parties claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. These third parties include entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property for the sole purpose of monetization through infringement assertions. We expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to expand into new businesses and acquire companies; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the use of AI and support of LLMs becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert managements time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; 24 Table of Contents require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or otherwise use our intellectual property. Our patents may be invalidated or circumvented. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the claim scope we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of intellectual property protection as U.S. laws and courts. If we cannot protect our intellectual property against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. Legal and Regulatory Risks Adverse litigation results could affect our business. We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our managements attention away from running our core business. The results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. Even favorable judgments have been, and may in the future be, subject to appeals leading to protracted litigation, additional costs and the prospect that our desired outcome will be overturned. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We may be subjected to increased taxes due to changes in U.S. or international tax laws or from adverse resolutions of tax audits and controversies. As a multinational corporation, we incur income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes (such as payroll, sales, use, property and value-added taxes) in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the application of the various taxes to the businesses in which we engage, often requiring that we make judgments in determining our tax liabilities and worldwide provision for income taxes. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in the U.S. and internationally, which has led to disagreements regarding our treatment of various items, including our intercompany transfer prices and calculations and the applicability of withholding taxes to our cross-border transactions. Any unfavorable resolution of these tax audits and controversies could cause our tax liabilities to increase and may have a material and adverse impact on our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. Although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and tax accruals. Countries around the world continually consider and make changes to relevant tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, guidance and interpretations. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering extending tax provisions enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, as well as making other changes to federal tax law, some of which could have an adverse impact on us. Various other legislative proposals, if enacted, could substantially raise U.S. income taxes on our domestic and international profits. Such unfavorable tax proposals create the potential for added volatility in our quarterly provision for income taxes and could have a material adverse impact on our future income tax provisions and effective tax rate. Other countries also continue to consider changes to their tax laws that could negatively affect us by increasing taxes imposed on our international revenue streams, operations and cross-border transactions, including the imposition of taxes targeted at digital technology businesses and changes in withholding tax rules. A project led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 38 countries including the U.S., over the last several years has resulted in changes to the basic design of the international tax system, including the implementation of a 15% minimum tax in over 50 countries, as well as proposed changes that would provide greater taxing rights to market jurisdictions where customers or users are located. There can be no assurance that these enacted changes, which are subject to ongoing OECD guidance and interpretations by the various adopting countries, and any contemplated changes, if implemented by countries, will not materially increase the level of income tax on our international profits. 25 Table of Contents Our future income tax provisions and effective tax rate could materially increase under the tax changes discussed above or if other changes are made to applicable tax laws and rules in the U.S. or in other countries in which we do business. Our provision for income taxes also could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of income earned or losses incurred in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, fluctuations in our stock price and level of stock-based compensation expense, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities and by other factors. Our international sales and operations and global customer base subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S., and in both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations we serve customers based in or with ties to numerous jurisdictions around the world. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, competition/antitrust regulations, anti-bribery laws and other laws prohibiting payments to governmental officials such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), market access regulations, tariffs, and import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to sanctions and embargos. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in monetary fines, civil and/or criminal penalties, enforcement actions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including disgorgement, the loss of trade privileges, and other remedial measures. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries or territories or to certain entities, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Changes to sanctions or export control regulations in the U.S. and the other jurisdictions where we currently operate or have dealings, or in the future may operate or have dealings, can require suspension or termination of business (including financial transactions) in or with certain countries and territories or with certain customers. In addition, we continue to closely monitor international relations and it is difficult to anticipate the effect geopolitical developments may have on us. Compliance with any further sanctions, export controls or other regulatory restrictions (and any countermeasures thereto) taken by the U.S. or other countries could prevent us from serving certain customers or restrict us or our customers from operating in specific jurisdictions, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. For example, the U.S. enacted a law making it unlawful, beginning in January 2025, to provide internet hosting services to TikTok that are used to enable the distribution, maintenance, or updating of TikTok for users within the U.S. The President issued executive orders that prohibit enforcement until a future date, and also prohibit the imposition of penalties at any time for providing services during the time period covered by the prohibition of enforcement, and ordered the Attorney General to notify relevant service providers that continuing to provide services during the prohibition of enforcement does not violate the statute. If the prohibition is lifted or expires without a resolution that satisfies relevant legal requirements, we may no longer be able to provide those services to TikTok, and if we cannot redeploy that capacity in a timely manner, our revenues and profits would be adversely impacted. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and manage these risks. We monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. Where warranted, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities who may conduct their own investigations, and we respond to their requests or demands for information. No assurance can be given that such authorities will not take action or that our compliance program will prove effective. There is no guarantee that our compliance policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent all violations of laws, including economic and financial sanction laws and embargoes. In addition, we are currently navigating a period of geopolitical and regulatory volatility. We face a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; political unrest, terrorism and war, including but not limited to the current Russia-Ukraine war and its potential economic and geopolitical impacts on Europe, where a material portion of our business is carried out; the potential for other hostilities, including but not limited to further destabilization in the Middle East and tensions between China and Taiwan; public health, social and supporting infrastructure stability risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; 26 Table of Contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts on customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in accessing or transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries that could lead to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that countrys currency; regulatory changes, including unexpected government austerity measures in certain countries that may impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; common local business behaviors or regulatory requirements that conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; and weaker protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our supply chain operations and sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited, a publicly traded company in India, and Oracle Corporation Japan, a publicly traded company in Japan, we face several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and thus, we are subject to several laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could adversely affect our healthcare business. As a participant in the healthcare industry, certain of our operations and relationships, and those of our customers, are regulated by several U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. These regulations impact us both directly and indirectly, in terms of government program requirements applicable to our customers for the use of health IT. Even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products and services must be capable of being used by our customers in a way that complies with those laws and regulations. There are significant, wide-ranging and rapidly evolving regulations worldwide, covering healthcare fraud, information sharing, e-prescribing, medical claims processing and transmission, healthcare devices, the use of AI in healthcare, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Medical device regulations in the U.S. and other countries may now or in the future apply to certain of our healthcare products and services. If any of our healthcare products and services are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities, including pre-market notification clearance or recalls. Certified electronic health record technology (CEHRT) requirements continue to evolve and remain necessary to participate in federal healthcare programs in order to receive reimbursement for health items and services provided by certain of our customers to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. We expect the regulations establishing the certification and interoperability standards for CEHRT will continue to be updated to emphasize interoperability, consumer engagement, patient safety and health information privacy and security. Complying with these regulations globally is expensive and could subject us to unanticipated and significant delays. If we fail to comply sufficiently with these and other regulations, it could negatively impact our ability to continue to develop, distribute and deliver certain of our healthcare products and services, and we could suffer fines or penalties. Our sales to local, state, federal and foreign government customers expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, government shutdowns, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. Governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. Changes in government procurement policy, priorities, regulations, technology initiatives and/or requirements may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. For example, the U.S. government imposes 27 Table of Contents evolving cybersecurity requirements, including, for example, the FedRAMP authorization process and the Department of Defense (DoD) Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification. These requirements may impact our lines of business in the U.S. federal government market. Compliance with these cybersecurity requirements is complex and costly, and any failure or alleged failure to meet, or delays in meeting, the required security controls could result in liability, limit our ability to sell products and services, directly or indirectly, to the DoD and other federal and state government entities that implement similar cybersecurity requirements and adversely affect our reputation and sales. We are also subject to early termination of our contracts. Many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time for a variety of reasons, including without cause. For example, the U.S. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. U.S. federal, state and local government and foreign government contracts are generally subject to government funding authorizations/appropriations. Contracts may also be terminated due to a lack of government funds. There is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. This may adversely impact spending on government programs and result in termination of government contracts, delays in contract awards and pausing of payments during cost efficiency reviews. In addition, an extended federal government shutdown in the U.S. could cause delays in approvals and decision making, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and certain of our government contracts and contracting practices are currently, and may in the future be, subject to audits and investigations. Any violations of law or alleged violations of law could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of fees received, treble damages, settlement payments, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, as well as adverse publicity and reputational damage. Environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Our cloud and hardware operations are subject to extensive, evolving and sometimes inconsistent state, federal and international regulations related to ESG matters. Some of these regulations establish specific metrics, targets, and disclosure frameworks for a variety of ESG issues, including environmental sustainability, supply chain labor practices, workforce health and safety, proper handling and disposal of certain chemicals and materials, and local testing and labeling requirements. Regulatory, market, carbon tax and competitive pressures regarding the greenhouse gas emissions and energy mix for our data center operations have increased and are expected to continue to increase. Compliance with these ever-changing and sometimes divergent ESG laws in a timely manner could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations, insurance premiums and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. Failure to comply with these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services in certain regions. Additionally, new or updated regulated disclosure requirements could result in revisions to our previous ESG-related disclosure, which could expose us to liability or reputational harm. Financial Risks Our operations can be difficult for us to predict because our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors. Our revenues, particularly certain of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues, can be difficult to forecast. A substantial portion of our cloud license, on-premise license and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. We typically have a number of large transactions each quarter, which increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results. If we lose one or more of our key customers for any reason, or we experience a delay in even a small number of these large transactions, our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability could fall significantly short of our predictions. In addition, sudden shifts in regional or global economic or political activity may cause our sales forecasts to be inaccurate. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we hold a portfolio of marketable and non-marketable debt and equity investments, including investments in Ampere Computing Holdings LLC (Ampere), a privately held related party entity in which we had an ownership interest of approximately 29% as of May 31, 2025. Any impairment charges and effect of changes in the fair values of certain of these investments are recorded as unrealized gains or losses as a component of consolidated net income in each period. The timing and amount of impairment charges or changes in fair value, if any, of these investments depends on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, and are also subject to the general conditions of public and private equity markets, which are uncertain and have in the past varied, and may in the future vary, materially by period. Changes in the fair values of these investments, including Ampere, have contributed, and may in the future contribute, to volatility in our net income that is not reflective of our core businesses. On March 19, 2025, SoftBank Group Corp. announced that it had entered into an agreement with Ampere and certain of its equity holders to acquire all of the equity interests of Ampere (the Ampere Acquisition). The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, that are beyond our control. If the Ampere Acquisition closes, we will cease to be an investor in Ampere. During the period prior to closing the Ampere Acquisition, the amount of our investments in Ampere could increase for a variety of reasons and we will continue to recognize our share of loss in Amperes net earnings until the closure of the acquisition. If the Ampere Acquisition does not close, we will continue to be exposed to the risk associated with our investments in Ampere as discussed above. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability.We conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen and Saudi Riyal, relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in U.S. Dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth by reducing the U.S. Dollar value of our foreign currency earnings and affecting actual demand for our products and services as they may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. Currency variations can also negatively impact profit margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. Generally, a stronger U.S. Dollar adversely affects, and a weaker U.S. Dollar favorably affects, our reported revenues and operating results. In addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies and reported in U.S. Dollars. In addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged to earnings in the period incurred. We have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. We may suspend the program from time to time. As part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A large portion of our consolidated operations is international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts, including the cost to obtain such contracts. For example, we experience foreign currency gains and losses when it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, our hedging efforts are ineffective or we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. Our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and any related fees paid to purchase such contracts, and other factors. All of these factors can from time to time materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the U.S. Dollar. We could incur future losses in other countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. As of May 31, 2025, we had an aggregate of $92.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2025 and calendar year 2065. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our 29 Table of Contents business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this Risk Factors section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. We have been refinancing portions of our outstanding debt as it matures and we may continue to do so in the future. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition, changes to our outlook or credit rating or a withdrawal by any rating agency could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value.All of the factors discussed within this Risk Factors section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market by us or by our competitors regarding new cloud services, AI advancements, products, product enhancements, technological advances, data center capacity, acquisitions or major transactions could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of stock repurchases or dividends could affect our stock price. Our stock price could also be affected by factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press, social media and the analyst community; changes in recommendations or earnings-related estimates by financial analysts; changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock; negative analyst surveys or channel check surveys; earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors expectations; our credit ratings; dissemination of inaccurate information or misinformation about our business and results of operations (including through the malicious use of generative AI tools); the enforcement or non-enforcement of laws and regulations; and market trends unrelated to our performance. The stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Further, our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Our stock repurchase program may not enhance long-term stockholder value. General Risks Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise cloud, license and hardware products and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general legal, regulatory and political developments. Macroeconomic developments such as the global or regional economic effects resulting from elevated inflation and interest rates, limited liquidity, adverse developments affecting financial institutions, the current wars, evolving trade policies between the U.S. and international trade partners, including the imposition of tariffs and other trade measures or restrictions, or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. Any general weakening of, and related declining 30 Table of Contents corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their IT budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. If any parties with whom we conduct business or invest our cash or cash equivalents are unable to meet their obligations to us, our business could be adversely affected. Bank failures or issues in the broader U.S. or global financial systems may have an impact on the broader capital markets and, in turn, our ability to access those markets. In addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, trade wars, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of cloud license and on-premise license, hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for license support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. Business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results.A significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the U.S. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems, supply chains and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back-office processes. Although the Oracle Cloud is designed to automatically redirect traffic to an alternate facility, in the event of a severe impact to one facility, a major natural disaster, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports our operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations, supply chains or IT systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents Item 1C. Cybersecurity Our overall information security risk management approach is designed to enable us to assess, identify and manage major risk exposures, including from material risks from cybersecurity threats, in a timely manner. As part of our information security risk management program, we perform risk assessments in which we map and prioritize information security risks identified through the processes described below. These assessments inform our information security risk management strategies and oversight processes and we view cybersecurity risks as one of the key risk categories we face. We believe that Oracle is a target for computer hackers, cyber threats and other bad actors because our products and services store, retrieve, process and manage large amounts of data, including sensitive data. We and our vendors are regularly subject to attempts by third parties to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers, partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems. If a large scale cyberattack or other major security incident results in unauthorized access to or modification or exfiltration of a significant amount of our customers or suppliers data, other external data, our own data or our IT systems, or if the services we provide to our customers are disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have (or are perceived as having) security vulnerabilities, we could incur significant expenses and suffer substantial damage to our brand and reputation, and this could result in a material impact on our business. Refer to Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks in Risk Factors included in Item 1A within this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to cybersecurity risks. During fiscal 2025, Oracle experienced cybersecurity incidents that, to date, have not had a material impact on our business, including our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. Our corporate security and information security programs are designed to help us prevent, prepare for, detect, respond to and recover from cybersecurity threats. We leverage industry standard security frameworks to evaluate our security controls. Relevant personnel collaborate with subject matter experts throughout the process to identify and assess material cybersecurity threats, evaluate their severity, and explore ways to mitigate a potential security incident. We continually conduct security and privacy reviews to pinpoint risks associated with our products, services and enterprise. We also employ various monitoring tools to track suspicious or anomalous activity across our networks, systems, and data, and we simulate cyber threats to proactively address vulnerabilities. Finally, we routinely train our employees on cybersecurity matters. This program includes processes for triaging, assessing the severity of, escalating, containing, investigating and remediating information security events, as well as meeting legal obligations and minimizing customer impact and brand and reputational damage. In addition, we maintain insurance to protect against potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident. Periodic tabletop exercises are conducted to test and reinforce our incident response controls, with incident severity and priority assessed on an ongoing basis. We also conduct external and internal risk management audits to assess and report on our internal incident response preparedness and help identify areas for continued focus and improvement. We conduct periodic penetration testing to identify vulnerabilities in our products, services, and systems. We also undergo security-related industry certifications and attestations by external auditors, including System and Organization Controls (SOC) 1, SOC 2, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001, 27017 and 27018, Cloud Security Alliance Security Trust Assurance and Risk (CSA STAR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and other compliance frameworks.Additionally, our vendor risk management program identifies and mitigates risks associated with third-party service providers, including those within our supply chain and those with access to our customer or employee data or systems. We use the findings from these and other processes to review our information security practices, procedures and technologies. Cybersecurity is an important area of focus for our Board. Our information security risk management program is designed to allow our Board to establish a mutual understanding with management of the effectiveness of our information security risk management practices and capabilities, including the division of responsibilities for reviewing our information security risk exposure and risk tolerance, tracking emerging information risks and ensuring proper escalation of certain key risks for periodic review by the Board of Directors and its committees. As 32 Table of Contents part of its broader risk oversight activities, the Board oversees risks from cybersecurity risks, both directly and through the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board (the F&A Committee). As reflected in its charter, the F&A Committee assists the Board with the management and assessment of privacy and data security risk and is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management privacy and data security risk exposures, including, among other things, the potential impacts of those exposures on our business, financial results, operations and reputation. The F&A Committee also oversees our internal controls over financial reporting, including with respect to financial reporting-related information systems. As an element of its information security risk management oversight activities, the F&A Committee reviews the results of our incident response control tests, external and internal audits and penetration testing and oversees our vendor risk management program. The F&A Committee also receives quarterly updates regarding cybersecurity matters from senior management. In turn, the F&A Committee reports to the full Board on a quarterly basis regarding the F&A Committees cybersecurity risk oversight activities. We also have Board members with expansive knowledge and expertise in the area of cybersecurity. In addition to these regularly scheduled updates, our Chief Privacy Officer and Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security may also report to the F&A Committee on how certain information security risks are being managed and progress towards agreed mitigation goals, as well as any potential material risks from cybersecurity threats that have been detected by the information security team. Robert Duhart, Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security is responsible for the day-to-day identification, assessment and management of the information security risks we face.Our Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security has extensive experience in managing cybersecurity and has served in various leadership roles in information technology and cybersecurity at several large public companies, the U.S. Department of Defense and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Most recently, he served as the Chief Information Security Officer, eCommerce and Deputy Chief Information Security Officer at a major retailer. Our Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security earned a masters degree in technology management from George Mason University Costello College of Business, and a Chief Information Security Officer Executive Certificate from Carnegie Mellon University Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy. Our Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security is supported by team members who have relevant educational and industry experience. These team members provide regular reports to the Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security and work closely with our Chief Privacy Officer and include personnel dedicated to information security, product security, and physical security. Informed by the processes and practices discussed under Risk Management and Strategy above, team members escalate cybersecurity threats and incidents to the Senior Vice President, Cloud Security and Head of Global Information Security who assesses the severity of such threats and incidents for inclusion in quarterly update to the F&A Committee where appropriate. In addition to the ordinary-course Board and F&A Committee reporting and oversight described above, we also maintain disclosure