Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of the results of operations and financial condition of Ouster, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Ouster) should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 28, 2022. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K dated and filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. On December 21, 2020, Ouster Technologies, Inc. (OTI, prior to the Merger, named Ouster, Inc.) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Colonnade Acquisition Corp., a Cayman Islands exempted company (CLA), and Beam Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub), a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of CLA. OTIs and CLAs board of directors unanimously approved OTIs entry into the Merger Agreement, and on March 11, 2021, the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement were consummated (all such transactions, the Merger), as further described below. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our and the Company refer to the business and operations of OTI (formerly known as Ouster, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger and to Ouster, Inc. (formerly known as Colonnade Acquisition Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Merger. Overview We are a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, allowing each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and ultimately enabling safe operation and autonomy. We design and manufacture digital lidar sensors that we believe are the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: industrial automation; smart infrastructure; robotics; and automotive. We shipped sensors to over 650 customers in the twelve months ended March 31, 2022. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. Our product offering today includes our OS scanning product line and our DF solid-state product line. With our unique digital lidar technology, we offer numerous customization options across our products, all enabled by flexible technology and embedded software. Today we offer short, medium, and long-range lidar products at varying price points and with tailored capabilities to meet the different needs of our diverse customer base. We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain and production yields. The same digital lidar components underpin our entire product portfolio which drives economies of scale in our supply chains. With virtually unlimited software-defined products driving low-cost customization, we are able to increase stock keeping units (SKUs) for industry-specific applications, expanding our product offering with minimal manufacturing or inventory changes. We currently offer many different software-defined product SKUs, all based on this common architecture and shared core componentry. Additionally, we are successfully expanding our manufacturing capacity by outsourcing to our manufacturing partner, Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (Benchmark). Benchmark manufactures our products at its facility in Thailand, which we expect will reduce our product costs and allow us to rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Based on cost quotes for our products in mass production, we believe our manufacturing costs to be lower than certain of our competitors, and we expect our manufacturing costs per unit to decrease further with higher volumes. We have won and are actively negotiating several multi-year sales contracts, including certain Strategic Customer Agreements (SCAs), which establish a multi-year purchase and supply framework for Ouster and the customer, and include details about customer programs and applications where the customer intends to use Ouster products. SCAs also include multi-year non-binding customer forecasts (typically of three to five years in length) giving Ouster visibility to the customer's long-term purchasing requirements, mutually agreed upon pricing over the duration of the agreement, and, in certain cases, include multi-year binding purchase commitments. 24 Table of Contents We founded Ouster in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. Since then, we have grown to approximately 280 employees serving over 650 customers globally in the twelve months ended March 31, 2022. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we have expanded and plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts and our software development capabilities, and to accelerate sensor development efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA. Merger Agreement with Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Beam Merger Sub, Inc. On December 21, 2020, OTI entered into the Merger Agreement with CLA, and Merger Sub, a subsidiary of CLA. OTIs and CLAs board of directors unanimously approved OTIs entry into the Merger Agreement, and on March 11, 2021, the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement were consummated. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, (i) CLA domesticated as a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Domestication) and changed its name to Ouster, Inc. (with CLA after such domestication and the other transactions pursuant to the Merger Agreement being referred to as the Company) and (ii) Merger Sub merged with and into OTI (the Merger), with OTI surviving the Merger. As a result of and upon the effective time of the Domestication, among other things, (1) each of the then issued and outstanding 5,000,000 CLA Class B ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of CLA (the CLA Class B ordinary shares) converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a CLA Class A ordinary share (as defined below), (2) immediately following the conversion described in clause (1), each of the then issued and outstanding 25,000,000 Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of CLA (the CLA Class A ordinary shares), converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Ouster (the Ouster common stock), (3) each of the then issued and outstanding 10,000,000 redeemable warrants of CLA (the CLA warrants) converted automatically into a redeemable warrant to purchase one share of Ouster common stock (the Public warrants) pursuant to the Warrant Agreement, dated August 20, 2020 (the Warrant Agreement), between CLA and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company (Continental), as warrant agent, and (4) each of the then issued and outstanding units of CLA that had not been previously separated into the underlying CLA Class A ordinary shares and underlying CLA warrants upon the request of the holder thereof (the CLA units), were cancelled and entitled the holder thereof to one share of Ouster common stock and one-half of one Public warrant, and (5) each of the then issued and outstanding 6,000,000 private placement warrants of CLA (the Private Placement warrants) converted automatically into a Public warrant pursuant to the Warrant Agreement. No fractional Public warrants were issued upon separation of the CLA units. Immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, (1) each share of OTIs Series B Preferred Stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the OTI Preferred Stock), converted into one share of common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, of OTI (the OTI common stock and, together with OTI Preferred Stock, the OTI Capital Stock) (such conversion, the OTI Preferred Conversion) and (2) all of the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of OTI Capital Stock were exercised in full or terminated in accordance with their respective terms (the OTI Warrant Settlement). As a result of and upon the closing of the Merger, among other things, all shares of OTI Capital Stock (after giving effect to the OTI Warrant Settlement) outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger together with shares of OTI common stock reserved in respect of options to purchase shares of OTI common stock and restricted shares of OTI common stock (together, the OTI Awards) outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger that were converted into awards based on Ouster common stock, were cancelled in exchange for the right to receive, or the reservation of, an aggregate of $1.5 billion of shares of Ouster common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share), which, in the case of OTI Awards, were shares underlying awards based on Ouster common stock, representing a fully-diluted pre-transaction shares. Upon the closing of the Merger, the Company received gross proceeds of $299.9 million from the Merger and private offering, offset by $8.5 million of pre-merger costs relating to CLA and transaction costs of $26.6 million. Sense Acquisition On October 22, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Sense Photonics, Inc. (Sense). Under the terms of the merger agreement, we acquired 100% of Sense and all of its property for approximately 10 million shares of Ouster common stock or approximately $63.0 million in equity value based on the closing price of $6.55 per share as of the day the transaction closed on October 22, 2021, inclusive of 0.8 million shares underlying assumed options, after closing adjustments. This acquisition is expected to help Ouster expand its presence in the automotive vertical by executing on our hiring goals and product roadmap on a faster timeline. 25 Table of Contents COVID-19 Impact Beginning in 2020, the worldwide spread of the pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), including its variants, and the measures intended to contain the spread of COVID-19, have resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity and caused disruptions to our business. For example, our suppliers are located worldwide, and some of our key suppliers have been affected by the pandemic resulting in supply chain disruptions. We have experienced and continue to experience some unfavorable purchase price variance and situational expedite fees in order to meet production and delivery timelines. While we may see additional or new pressures on our supply chain both related and unrelated to the pandemic, we are actively taking steps to mitigate the impact of the materials shortages on our business. At times during the pandemic, some customers have delayed orders and production schedules due to COVID-19. The pandemic continues to evolve, and the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, including sales, expenses, reserves and allowances, manufacturing, research and development costs and personnel-related costs, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19, the impact of new variants of the disease and the actions taken to contain, prevent or treat COVID-19, rate and success of vaccination efforts, vaccination reticence, any resurgence of the pandemic in areas where we, Benchmark or our suppliers operate, and the economic impact on local, regional, national and international customers and markets. Going forward, the situation remains uncertain, rapidly changing and hard to predict, and the COVID-19 pandemic may have a material negative impact on our future results. Factors Affecting Our Performance Supply Chain Continuity. Beginning in 2021, a surge in demand for electronics containing semiconductor chips and stockpiling of chips by certain companies created disruptions in the supply chain, which has resulted in a global chip shortage impacting our industry. Some chip manufacturers are estimating that this supply shortage may continue through mid-2023. These chip manufacturers are working to increase capacity in the future, and we are managing our inventory and working closely with our regular suppliers and customers to minimize the potential impacts of any supply shortages including by securing additional inventory. While we do not expect the shortage to have a material near-term impact on our ability to meet existing demand for our current products, the shortage adversely impacted our gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2021 and the three months ended March 31, 2022 and may continue to do so. We anticipate fluctuation in our cost of goods sold over the next 12-18 months as a result of ongoing supply chain constraints. These constraints have caused and may in the future cause us to implement certain temporary price surcharges. Over time, we expect our overall average selling prices to decline as our volume increases. If our mitigating efforts are not successful or the shortage continues or worsens in ways we did not anticipate, our ability to supply or improve our current products as well as our development and rollout of future products could also be adversely affected. Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that lidar is approaching its inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects to commercialize semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Nonetheless, our revenue may not grow as we expect unless and until more customers commercialize their products and lidar technology becomes more prevalent across our target end markets. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested, validated, and achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to seven years, based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets, including industrial automation, smart infrastructure and robotics. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and sales and that they select our products in their commercial production applications. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production and sales is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. 26 Table of Contents Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we will continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, end market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our end customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of the customers. We believe our sales volume by customer depends on the end market demand for our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions as well as our ability to grow our sales force. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors sold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on margins from signing anticipated large multi-year agreements (including our SCAs) in the near term with multi-year negotiated pricing, as well as supply chain constraints discussed above. We expect these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, notwithstanding any short-term price surcharge on our products, we expect that over time our volume-driven product costs will lead to gross margin improvement as our sales volume increases. Competition . Lidar is an emerging market, and there are competitors for the growing market. Competitors may offer lidar products at lower prices than ours, including pricing that may be below their cost, or may offer superior performing lidar products. These companies also compete with us indirectly by attempting to solve some of the same challenges with different technology. Established competitors in the market for lidar sensors have significantly greater resources and more experience than we do. These competitors have commercialized lidar technology that has achieved market adoption, strong brand recognition and may continue to improve in both anticipated and unanticipated ways. They may also enter, and have entered, into commercial relationships with key customers and potential customers and have built relationships and dependencies between themselves and those key customers and potential customers. This has created downward pressure on our ASPs, particularly in the Asia and Pacific region. We expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of our complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS), digital lidar technology, we are in the position to scale more rapidly than our analog competitors and leverage our scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation . We believe that we are a leading digital lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully realizing our product roadmap. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate robust demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multibillion dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the near future. We define our TAM as automation applications in the industrial, smart infrastructure, robotics and automotive end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors. Although increasing adoption of semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology may generate higher demand, we may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our digital lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of semi-autonomous solutions and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: North and South America; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations and additional operational costs, risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenue and gross margins. 27 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our digital lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services related to product development and validation, and shipping; however, we do not expect product development and validation and license and services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the foreseeable future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as product revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are currently in the evaluation or early R&D stage with our products. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their ramp rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business we expect to improve predictability into our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. Over the coming years, as more of our customers move into their respective production phases, we expect the majority of our product revenue to shift to larger volume orders based on predictable production schedules. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our digital lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related costs directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, stock-based compensation for manufacturing personnel, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Subject to quarterly fluctuations and volatility, we expect unit costs to improve as we manufacture higher unit volumes of sensors and a greater portion of our sensors are produced by our contract manufacturer in Thailand. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco based headquarters and our additional R&D facility in Edinburgh, Scotland and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for industrial and autonomous vehicle safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware development and software development of lidar integration products; Custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, and prototype expenses. 28 Table of Contents R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expense will grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease annually as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Our investment in sales and marketing will continue to grow as we continue to expand our sales team globally, and our absolute amount of sales and marketing expenses will grow over time. We expect sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resource, IT, and legal departments as well as fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services as well as insurance, and bank fees. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expense will grow over time; however, we expect the general and administrative spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease annually as our business grows. Near term increases in general and administrative expenses are expected to be related to hiring more personnel and consultants to support our growing international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and other U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations. Stock-Based Compensation We measure and recognize stock-based compensation expense for stock-based awards over the requisite service periods based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and convertible notes and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, the change in fair value of financial instruments, including warrants issued in connection with a debt agreement, and Private Placement warrants acquired as part of the Merger. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on its deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets. Income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, was not material to the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Product revenue $ 8,558 $ 6,611 Cost of product revenue (1) 5,967 4,868 Gross profit 2,591 1,743 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 15,906 4,712 Sales and marketing 7,090 3,426 General and administrative 13,783 9,907 Total operating expenses 36,779 18,045 Loss from operations (34,188) (16,302) Other (expense) income: Interest income 154 1 Interest expense (504) Other income (expense), net 1,684 (4,152) Total other expense, net 1,838 (4,655) Loss before income taxes (32,350) (20,957) Provision for income tax expense 47 Net loss $ (32,397) $ (20,957) The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (% of total revenue) Product revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of product revenue (1) 70 74 Gross profit 30 26 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 186 71 Sales and marketing 83 52 General and administrative 161 150 Total operating expenses 430 273 Loss from operations (400) (247) Other (expense) income: Interest income 2 Interest expense (8) Other income (expense), net 20 (63) Total other expense, net 22 (71) Loss before income taxes (378) (318) Provision for income tax expense 1 Net loss (379) % (318) % 30 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 217 $ 118 Research and development 3,761 921 Sales and marketing 1,524 265 General and administrative 3,248 3,952 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,750 $ 5,256 Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Product revenue $ 8,558 $ 6,611 $ 1,947 29 % Revenue by geographic location: United States $ 2,863 $ 1,858 $ 1,005 54 % North and South America, excluding United States 456 366 90 25 Asia and Pacific 2,356 1,254 1,102 88 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2,883 3,133 (250) (8) Total $ 8,558 $ 6,611 $ 1,947 29 % Product Revenue Product revenue increased by $1.9 million, or 29%, to $8.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $6.6 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in product revenue was driven by an increase in volume of 58%, which we attribute primarily to the expansion of our sales team into new geographic regions and the increase of high volume, long-term deals as some of our customers begin to move into a production stage with their autonomous products. Our average selling price declined by 20% as we moved towards negotiated customer pricing with customers reaching the production stage with their autonomous products and we expect reductions in the cost of goods sold as we grow our volumes. Geographic Locations Revenue increased across the geographic regions of United States; North and South America, excluding United States; and Asia and Pacific; by $1.0 million, $0.1 million, and $1.1 million, respectively. The revenue increases in those geographic regions were a result of recent sales expansion. Revenue decreased in Europe, Middle East and Africa due to a large one time contract which was fulfilled during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and represented 57% of the revenue from Europe, Middle East and Africa in the first quarter of 2021. Cost of Product Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 5,967 $ 4,868 $ 1,099 23 % 31 Table of Contents Cost of Product Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of product revenue increased by $1.1 million, or 23%, to $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $4.9 million for the comparable period in the prior year and cost per unit decreased by 23%. The increase in cost of product revenue was primarily due to an increase of $0.5 million purchase price variance due to the supply chain shortage, increases related to volume of $1.0 million in material costs, $0.1 million in freight costs and $1.1 million in manufacturing overhead costs and an increase of $0.1 million in cost per unit in freight. The increases were partially offset by a decrease of $1.7 million in per unit costs of materials, labor and overhead and other costs related to product revenue. Gross margin increased from 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 to 30% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in product gross margin is due to the 23% decrease in cost per unit partially offset by the 20% decrease in average selling price. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 15,906 $ 4,712 $ 11,194 238 % Sales and marketing 7,090 3,426 3,664 107 General and administrative 13,783 9,907 3,876 39 Total operating expenses: $ 36,779 $ 18,045 $ 18,734 104 % Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $11.2 million, or 238%, to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $4.7 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $4.6 million increase in payroll and benefits related costs, a $2.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, a $2.4 million increase in contractor, prototype, and equipment costs related to product development, a $0.7 million in depreciation and amortization expense, and a $0.6 million increase in other materials and supplies, facilities, professional fees and other miscellaneous costs attributable to research and development functions. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $3.7 million, or 107%, to $7.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $3.4 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $2.1 million in payroll and personnel-related costs and $1.3 million in stock-based compensation expense driven by the addition of sales personnel in all our global regions, as well as a $0.3 million increase in other expenses associated with our marketing and business development programs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $3.9 million, or 39%, to $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $9.9 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.4 million in payroll and personnel-related costs, an increase of $1.3 million in insurance premiums, an increase of $0.6 million in depreciation expenses, an increase of $0.5 million in professional services fees, and an increase of $0.8 million in office, facility and other expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $0.7 million in stock based compensation expenses. 32 Table of Contents Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 154 $ 1 $ 153 * Interest expense (504) 504 (100) Other income (expense), net 1,684 (4,152) 5,836 (141) *Not meaningful Interest income was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $0.001 million for the comparable period in the prior year. This increase in interest income was primarily related to an increase in our cash and cash equivalent balances. Interest expense was nil for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $0.5 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily because we recorded interest expense on our debt and convertible notes and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount for the comparable period in the prior year. Other income (expense), net was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $4.2 million for the comparable period in the prior year. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we recorded a gain of $1.7 million for the fair value change of Private Placement warrant liability which was offset by $0.1 million gain from disposal of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded a loss of $8.8 million for the fair value change of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, partially offset by a gain of $4.7 million for the fair value change of Private Placement warrant liability which was recorded as other income. Income Taxes We were subject to income tax in the United States, California, and miscellaneous foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Our income tax expense for three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was not material to the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. Prior to the Merger, we primarily funded our operations from the net proceeds from sales of our preferred convertible stock and convertible notes, borrowing under our loan and security agreement with Runway Growth Credit Fund, Inc. and product revenue. Upon closing of the Merger, we received gross proceeds of $299.9 million from the Merger and private offering, offset by $8.5 million of pre-merger costs relating to CLA and transactions costs of $26.6 million. On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at the market offering program (the ATM Offering). Subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, we may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us but we have no obligation to sell any of the shares. Actual sales, if any, will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, capital needs and determinations by us of the appropriate sources of its funding. We currently intend to use the net proceeds from any sale of shares pursuant to the ATM Offering for working capital and general corporate purposes. On April 29, 2022, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Hercules Capital, Inc. (Hercules). The Loan Agreement provides us with the term loan of up to $50.0 million, subject to terms and conditions. $20.0 million has been drawn to date under the Loan Agreement, and can be used for general working capital purposes. For additional information, see Debt Arrangements below. 33 Table of Contents Our principal sources of liquidity are expected to be our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from product revenues, sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program and our loan agreement executed with Hercules. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $335.8 million and cash and cash equivalents of $160.8 million. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with cash we expect to generate from future operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. However, because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We are likely to require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, the widespread COVID-19 pandemic, including variants, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. PIPE Investment On December 21, 2020, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, CLA entered into subscription agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors (collectively, the PIPE Investors), pursuant to which the PIPE Investors agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, 10,000,000 shares of Ouster common stock at $10.00 per share for an aggregate commitment amount of $100,000,000 (the PIPE Investment), a portion of which was funded by certain affiliates of Colonnade Sponsor LLC, CLAs sponsor (the Sponsor). The PIPE Investment was consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the Merger. Debt Arrangements On November 27, 2018, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Runway Growth Credit Fund, Inc. (Runway Loan and Security Agreement) and borrowed $10.0 million per the terms of that agreement with a loan maturity date of November 15, 2021. The loan carried an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 8.50%. We repaid $3.0 million of the loan in August 2020. On March 26, 2021 we terminated the Runway Loan and Security Agreement and repaid the $7.0 million principal amount outstanding as well as interest and fees amounting to $0.4 million. We incurred no prepayment fees in connection with the termination and all liens and security interests securing the loan made pursuant to the Runway Loan and Security Agreement were released upon termination. As of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the outstanding principal balance of the loan was nil. As described above, on April 29, 2022, we entered into the Loan Agreement with Hercules. The Loan Agreement provides us with a term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, subject to terms and conditions (the Term Loan Facility). $20.0 million has been drawn to date under the Loan Agreement, and can be used for general working capital purposes. We may borrow an additional $20.0 million on or before March 15, 2023, subject satisfying certain conditions. An additional $10.0 million may be drawn on or before June 15, 2023, subject to satisfying certain conditions relating to the achievement of trailing twelve month revenue and profit milestones. Advances under the Term Loan Facility bear interest at the rate of interest equal to greater of either (i) (x) the prime rate as reported in The Wall Street Journal plus (y) 6.15%, and (ii) 9.40%, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other conditions. The Loan Agreement includes covenants, limitations, and events of default customary for similar facilities. The Loan Agreement matures on May 1, 2026. Interest on amounts borrowed under the Loan Agreement is payable on a monthly basis until June 1, 2025. After June 1, 2025, payments consist of equal monthly installments of principal and interest payable until the secured obligations are repaid in full. However, if the Company achieves certain equity proceed, revenue or profit targets for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2023, then the interest-only payments will continue and the Company will be obligated to repay the aggregate principal amount on May 1, 2026. The entire principal balance and all accrued but unpaid interest hereunder, shall be due and payable on May 1, 2026. On the earliest to occur of May 1, 2026, the date on which the obligations under the Loan Agreement are paid and the date on which such obligations become due and payable, the Company is also required to pay Hercules an end of term charge from $1.5 million to $3.7 million, depending on the amount borrowed. 34 Table of Contents The Company may prepay the principal of any advance made pursuant to the terms of the Term Loan Facility at any time subject to a prepayment charge equal to: 2.50%, if such advance is prepaid in any of the first 12 months following the Closing Date, 1.50%, if such advance is prepaid after 12 months but prior to 24 months following the Closing Date, and 1.0%, if such advance is prepaid anytime thereafter. If the Company fails to maintain an unrestricted cash balance of $60 million, the Loan Agreement has a revenue financial covenant that requires the Company to achieve certain trailing twelve-month revenue targets tested quarterly. All obligations under the Loan Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by the Companys subsidiary Sense Photonics, Inc. The Term Loan Facility is secured by substantially all of the Companys and the guarantors existing and after-acquired assets, including all intellectual property, all securities in existing and future domestic subsidiaries and 65.0% of the securities in foreign subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions. The Loan Agreement contains customary covenants for transactions of this type and other covenants agreed to by the parties, including, among others, (i) the provision of annual, quarterly and monthly financial statements, management rights and insurance policies and (ii) restrictions on incurring debt, granting liens, making acquisitions, making loans, paying dividends, dissolving, and entering into leases and asset sales. The Loan Agreement also provides for customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control, judgment and material adverse effect defaults. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2022, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies and our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Cash Flow Summary Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (21,827) $ (12,399) Investing activities (141) (597) Financing activities 119 258,799 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, operating activities used $21.8 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $32.4 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $10.1 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $8.8 million, a $1.7 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, depreciation and amortization of $2.4 million, change in right-of-use asset of $0.6 million, inventory write down of $0.2 million and gain from disposal of property and equipment of $0.1 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million were primarily due to a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.5 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $0.8 million, an increase in inventories of $4.4 million, an increase in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities of $2.3 million, and a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.8 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, operating activities used $12.4 million in cash. Non-cash charges of 11.3 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $5.3 million, a $4.1 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, depreciation and amortization of $1.1 million, change in right-of-use asset of $0.5 million, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount of $0.3 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $2.8 million were primarily due to an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.2 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $0.7 million, an increase in inventories of $0.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities of $0.3 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.1 million. 35 Table of Contents Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million, which was related to purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by sales of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million, which was related to purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million, consisting primarily of proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.2 million, partially offset by repurchase of shares of common stock and taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $0.1 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $258.8 million consisting primarily of $291.5 million proceeds (net of $8.4 million of pre-Merger costs relating to CLA) from the Merger and PIPE Investment offset by offerings costs of $26.1 million, and proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.5 million, partially offset by repayment of debt of $7.0 million. There were promissory notes to related parties of $5.0 million that were issued and repaid during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 2 in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.