Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs involving risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On December 21, 2020, Ouster Technologies, Inc. (OTI,) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Colonnade Merger Agreement) with Colonnade Acquisition Corp., a Cayman Islands exempted company (CLA), and Beam Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub), a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of CLA. OTIs and CLAs board of directors unanimously approved OTIs entry into the Colonnade Merger Agreement, and on March 11, 2021, the transactions contemplated by the Colonnade Merger Agreement were consummated (all such transactions, the Business Combination), as further described below. Pursuant to the terms of the Colonnade Merger Agreement, (i) CLA domesticated as a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Domestication) and changed its name to Ouster, Inc. (with CLA after such domestication and the other transactions pursuant to the Colonnade Merger Agreement being referred to as the Company) and (ii) Merger Sub merged with and into OTI (the Colonnade Merger), with OTI surviving the Colonnade Merger. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Ouster and the Company refer to the business and operations of OTI (formerly known as Ouster, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Colonnade Merger and to Ouster, Inc. (formerly known as Colonnade Acquisition Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Colonnade Merger. 47 Table of C ontents Overview We founded Ouster in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. To continue to grow our bus iness in the coming years, we have expanded and plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts and our software development capabilities, and to accelerate sensor development efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA. We are a leading global provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, which allows each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and ultimately enabling safe operation and autonomy. We design and manufacture digital lidar sensors that we believe are one of the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: industrial automation; smart infrastructure; robotics; and automotive. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. Our product offering today includes three models of sensors in our OS product line: the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. In January 2020 we released new models in our OS product line, increasing the resolution of our OS1 model and introducing the OS0 and OS2 models. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our three models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. We are currently developing our solid-state DF product line, which is a suite of short, mid, and long-range solid-state digital lidar sensors that provide uniform precision imaging without motion blur across an entire field of view. On October 19, 2022, we announced the launch of our newest OS series scanning sensors, REV7, powered by our next-generation L3 chip. REV7 features the all-new OSDome sensor, as well as upgraded OS0, OS1, and OS2 sensors that deliver double the range, enhanced object detection, increased precision and accuracy, and greater reliability. The new REV7 sensors offer performance upgrades that we believe will enhance Ousters market opportunity, driven by new opportunities for longer-range and mapping applications. We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain and production yields. The same digital lidar architecture underpins our entire product portfolio which we believe drives economies of scale in our supply chains and speeds time to market. We are successfully expanding our manufacturing capacity by outsourcing to our manufacturing partner, Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (Benchmark). Benchmark manufactures our products at its facility in Thailand, which we expect will reduce our product costs and allow us to rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. We expect our manufacturing costs per unit to decrease further with higher volumes. Merger with Velodyne Lidar, Inc. On November 4, 2022, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Velodyne Merger Agreement) with Velodyne Lidar, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Velodyne), Oban Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub I) and Oban Merger Sub II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub II). On February 10, 2023, we completed our merger of equals with Velodyne pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Velodyne, Merger Sub I and Merger Sub II (the Velodyne Merger). In connection with the closing of the Velodyne Merger, we and Velodyne now operate as a single combined company. We believe the Velodyne Mergers will enhance our robust suite of product offerings; grow our diverse customer base; increase operational efficiencies; further develop our innovative product roadmap in anticipation for the future needs of the market; reduce our production costs; improve our path to profitability; and strengthen our future financial position. Amazon Warrant Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), holds a warrant (Amazon Warrant) to acquire, following customary antidilution adjustments, up to an aggregate of 32,638,980 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.07 per share. We assumed the Amazon Warrant as part of the Velodyne Merger. The exercise price and the warrant shares issuable upon exercise of the Amazon Warrant are subject to further antidilution adjustments, including in the event we make certain sales of common stock (or securities exercisable or convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock) at a price less than the exercise price of the Amazon Warrant. The Amazon Warrant is subject to vesting; 50% of the unvested Amazon Warrant vested as a result of the Velodyne Merger and the remainder will vest over time based on payments by Amazon or its affiliates to us in connection with Amazons purchase of goods and services from us. 48 Table of C ontents COVID-19 Impact Our suppliers who are located worldwide, including some of our key suppliers, have been affected by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, resulting in persistent supply chain disruptions. We have been experiencing unfavorable purchase price variance and situational expedite fees in order to meet production and delivery timelines. While we may experience additional and new pressures on our supply chain that may or may not be related to the pandemic, we have been actively taking steps to mitigate the impact of the materials shortages on our business. Some customers have delayed their orders and production schedules. In spite of what appears to be a return-to-normal in several regions, the pandemic continues to evolve, and the full extent to which it will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, including sales, expenses, reserves and allowances, manufacturing, research and development costs and personnel-related costs, will depend on future developments that are uncertain, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19, the impact of new variants and sub-variants and the actions taken to contain, prevent or treat COVID-19, rate and success of vaccination efforts, vaccination reticence, resurgence of the pandemic in areas where we, Benchmark or our suppliers operate, and the economic impact on local, regional, national and international customers and markets. Because the situation remains uncertain and hard to predict, the COVID-19 pandemic may have a material negative impact on our future results. Factors Affecting Our Performance Supply Chain Continuity. Beginning in 2021, a surge in demand for electronics containing semiconductor chips and stockpiling of chips by certain companies created disruptions in the supply chain, which continue to persist and have resulted in a global chip shortage impacting our industry. Some chip manufacturers continue to estimate that this supply shortage may continue through the end of 2023. These chip manufacturers are working to increase capacity in the future, and we are managing our inventory and working closely with our regular suppliers and customers to minimize the potential impacts of any supply shortages including by securing additional inventory. While we do not expect the shortage to have a material near-term impact on our ability to meet existing demand for our current products, the shortage adversely impacted our gross margins for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. We anticipate fluctuation in our cost of goods sold over the next 12-15 months as a result of ongoing supply chain constraints. These constraints have caused and may in the future cause us to implement certain temporary price surcharges. If our mitigating efforts are not successful or the shortage continues or worsens in ways we did not anticipate, our ability to supply or improve our current products as well as our development and rollout of future products could also be adversely affected. Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that lidar is approaching its inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects to commercialize semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Nonetheless, our revenue may not grow as we expect unless and until more customers commercialize their products and lidar technology becomes more prevalent across our target end markets. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested, validated, and achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to seven years, based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets, including industrial automation, smart infrastructure and robotics. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and sales and that they select our products in their commercial production applications. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production and sales is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we will continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, end market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our end customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of the customers. We believe our sales volume by customer depends on the end market demand for our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions as well as our ability to grow our sales force. 49 Table of C ontents Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors sold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on margins from signing anticipated large multi-year agreements in the near term with multi-year negotiated pricing, as well as the supply chain constraints discussed above. We expect that these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, notwithstanding any short-term price surcharges on our products, we expect that over time our volume-driven product costs will lead to gross margin improvement as our sales volume increases. Competition. Lidar is an emerging market, and there are many competitors for the growing market. This has created downward pressure on our ASPs, particularly in the Asia and Pacific region. We expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of our complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor, (CMOS), digital lidar technology, we are well-positioned to scale more rapidly than our competitors and leverage our scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation. We believe that we are a leading digital lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully realizing our product roadmap. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate robust demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multibillion dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the near future. We define our TAM as automation applications in the industrial, smart infrastructure, robotics and automotive end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors. Although increasing adoption of semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology may generate higher demand, we may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our digital lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of semi-autonomous solutions and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: North and South America; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations and additional operational costs, risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenue and gross margins. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our digital lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services related to product development and validation, and shipping; however, we do not expect product development and validation and license and services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the foreseeable future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are innovators and early technology adopters incorporating our products into their solutions. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation 50 Table of C ontents phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their ramp rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business we expect to improve predictability into our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. Over the coming years, as more of our customers move into their respective production phases, we expect the majority of our product revenue to shift to larger volume orders based on predictable production schedules. We also expect a significant amount of our revenue to come from international customers, and anticipate that our sales from regions outside of the Americas will continue to grow over the long-term. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our digital lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. We experienced negative gross margins from the fourth quarter of 2018 until we turned gross margin positive during 2020 primarily due to increased unit volumes which improved our ability to absorb fixed costs and lowered material costs by increasing our buying power and a shift to outsourced mass production of our sensors to Benchmark, who has leverage for greater volume discounts and lower overhead costs. Subject to quarterly fluctuations and volatility, we expect unit costs to decline as we manufacture higher unit volumes of sensors and a greater portion of our sensors are produced by our contract manufacturer in Thailand. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco based headquarters and our additional R&D facility in Edinburgh, Scotland and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for industrial and autonomous vehicle safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware development and software development of lidar integration products; Custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, and prototype expenses. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expenses will grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. We have experienced additional sales and marketing expenses as a result of our global expansion, and expect sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. 51 Table of C ontents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resource, IT, and legal departments as well as fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services as well as insurance and bank fees. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expenses will grow over time; however, we expect the general and administrative spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. We have experienced and may in the near term experience additional increases in general and administrative expenses related to legal, accounting, finance and professional services costs associated with the Velodyne Merger, hiring more personnel and consultants to support our growing international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and other SEC rules and regulations as a result of being a public company. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and convertible notes and amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, the change in fair value of financial instruments, including warrants issued in connection with a debt agreement, and warrants initially issued by CLA in a private placement. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations: For a discussion of the Companys results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the year ended December 31, 2020, including a year-to-year comparison between the year ended December 31, 2021 to the year ended December 31, 2020, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in Part II of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. 52 Table of C ontents The following table summarizes key components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 41,029 $ 33,578 Cost of revenue (1) 30,099 24,492 Gross profit 10,930 9,086 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 64,317 34,579 Sales and marketing 30,833 22,258 General and administrative 61,203 51,959 Total operating expenses 156,353 108,796 Loss from operations (145,423) (99,710) Other (expense) income: Interest income 2,208 471 Interest expense (2,694) (504) Other income, net 7,654 2,968 Total other income, net 7,168 2,935 Loss before income taxes (138,255) (96,775) Provision (benefit from) for income tax expense 305 (2,794) Net loss $ (138,560) $ (93,981) The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (% of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue (1) 73 73 Gross profit 27 27 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 157 103 Sales and marketing 75 66 General and administrative 149 155 Total operating expenses 381 324 Loss from operations (354) (297) Other (expense) income: Interest income 5 1 Interest expense (7) (2) Other income, net 19 9 Total other income, net 17 8 Loss before income taxes (337) (289) Provision (benefit from) for income tax expense 1 (8) Net loss (338) % (281) % 53 Table of C ontents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 783 $ 637 Research and development 14,611 7,240 Sales and marketing 7,065 3,823 General and administrative 10,862 13,663 Total stock-based compensation $ 33,321 $ 25,363 Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2022 - 2021 Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic location: Americas $ 15,977 $ 15,656 $ 321 2 % Asia and Pacific 9,510 7,334 2,176 30 Europe, Middle East and Africa 15,542 10,588 4,954 47 Total $ 41,029 $ 33,578 $ 7,451 22 % Revenue Revenue increased by $7.5 million, or 22%, to $41.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $33.6 million for the prior year. The increase in product revenue was driven by an increase in volume of 34%, which we attribute primarily to the expansion of our sales team and the increase of high volume, long-term deals as some of our customers begin to move into the production stage. Our average selling price declined by 9%. Geographic Locations The Americas revenue remained relatively flat compared to prior year. Revenue increase in Asia and Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa regions was primarily attributable to our continued focus and investment in our global sales team and an increase in the demand of our products in the year ended December 31, 2022. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2022 - 2021 Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 30,099 $ 24,492 $ 5,607 23 % Cost of revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue increased by $5.6 million, or 23%, to $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $24.5 million for the prior year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to increase related to volume of units shipped. Gross margin was flat at 27% for the year ended December 31, 2022 as the result of 8% decrease in cost per unit offset by the 9% decrease in average selling prices. 54 Table of C ontents Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2022 - 2021 Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 64,317 $ 34,579 $ 29,738 86 % Sales and marketing 30,833 22,258 8,575 39 General and administrative 61,203 51,959 9,244 18 Total operating expenses: $ 156,353 $ 108,796 $ 47,557 44 % Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $29.7 million, or 86%, to $64.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $34.6 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the $11.6 million increase in payroll-related expenses, $6.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, $6.5 million increase in contractor, prototype, and equipment costs related to product development, $2.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense mainly due to acquired developed technology amortization, and $2.3 million in other materials and supplies, facilities, professional fees and other miscellaneous costs attributable to research and development functions. The increase in employee-related expenses was mainly due to the higher headcount associated with the Sense Photonics, Inc. acquisition. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $8.6 million, or 39%, to $30.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $22.3 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the $5.3 million increase in payroll and personnel-related costs and the $3.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense driven by the addition of sales personnel globally. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $9.2 million, or 18%, to $61.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $52.0 million in the prior year. The change was primarily attributable to the $2.6 million increase in litigation costs, $2.5 million increase in payroll and personnel-related costs, $2.3 million increase in professional services fees primarily related to Velodyne Merger, $2.2 million increase in office, facility and other expenses, $1.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses and $1.1 million increase in insurance premiums, partially offset by a decrease of $2.8 million in stock-based compensation expenses. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, 2022 - 2021 Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 2,208 $ 471 $ 1,737 369 % Interest expense (2,694) (504) (2,190) 435 Other income, net 7,654 2,968 4,686 158 Interest income was $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $0.5 million for the prior year. The increase in interest income was primarily attributable to higher interest rates on excess cash and cash equivalent balances. Interest expense was $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $0.5 million for the prior year. We recorded interest expense on our debt and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount in the year ended December 31, 2022 relating to multiple term loan borrowings and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount under our Loan and Security Agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc., dated April 29, 2022 (as amended, the Term Loan Facility). Interest expense recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of interest and amortization of debt issuance 55 Table of C ontents cost and discount on the loan and security agreement with Runway Growth Credit and Fund Inc., which was terminated on March 26, 2021. Other income (expense), net was $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $3.0 million for the prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a gain of $7.4 million for the fair value change of private placement warrant liability. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a gain of $11.8 million for the fair value change of warrant liability and a loss of $8.8 million for the fair value change of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2022 - 2021 Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Loss before income taxes $ (138,255) $ (96,775) $ (41,480) 43 % Provision (benefit from) for income tax expense 305 (2,794) 3,099 (111) Effective tax rate (0.22) % 2.89 % Our effective tax rate was (0.22)% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to our effective tax benefit of 2.89% for the prior year. Our tax expense changed by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to prior year, primarily due to the release of the valuation allowance as a result of recording a deferred tax liability from an acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from product revenues, sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program and our Loan Agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. Prior to the Colonnade Merger, we primarily funded our operations from the net proceeds from sales of our preferred convertible stock and convertible notes, borrowing under our loan and security agreement with Runway Growth Credit Fund, Inc. and product revenue. Upon closing of the Colonnade Merger, we received gross proceeds of $299.9 million from the Colonnade Merger and private offering, offset by $8.5 million of pre-merger costs relating to CLA and transactions cost of $26.6 million. On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (the ATM Agreement), pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at the market offering program. Subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, we may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us but we are under no obligation to sell any of the shares. Actual sales, if any, will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, capital needs and determinations by us of the appropriate sources of funding. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold 7,833,709 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $15.8 million under the ATM Agreement. We currently intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to the ATM Agreement for working capital and general corporate purposes. On April 29, 2022, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Hercules Capital, Inc. (Hercules). For additional information, see Debt Arrangements below. As of December 31, 2022 we had an accumulated deficit of $441.9 million and cash and cash equivalents of $122.9 million. We manage our cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions that we believe have high credit quality and, at times, such amounts exceed federally insured limits. The failure of any bank with which we maintain a commercial relationship could cause us to lose our deposits in excess of the federally insured or protected amounts. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. Because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We may require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on 56 Table of C ontents terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, the widespread COVID-19 pandemic and current macroeconomic conditions, including elevated inflation rates and high interest rates, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Debt Arrangements As described above, on April 29, 2022, we entered into the Loan Agreement with Hercules, which provided us with a term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, subject to terms and conditions (the Term Loan Facility). As of December 31, 2022, $40.0 million has been drawn to date under the Loan Agreement, and can be used for general working capital purposes subject to certain terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2022, we did not achieve certain conditions relating to the achievement of trailing twelve month revenue and profit milestones therefore an additional $10.0 million under the Term Loan Facility is no longer available to us. In contemplation of entry into the Velodyne Merger Agreement, on November 1, 2022, we entered into a Consent and Second Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement (the Second Amendment), amending the Loan Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Second Amendment, the financial covenant requiring us to achieve certain trailing twelve month revenue thresholds commencing with the quarter ending June 30, 2023 was eliminated and replaced, contingent upon and effective as of the closing of the Velodyne Merger, with a minimum liquidity financial covenant whereby we must maintain at least $60 million of cash in deposit accounts that are subject to an account control agreement in favor of Hercules. On February 10, 2023, we entered into the Third Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement (the Third Amendment), which amends certain provisions of the Loan Agreement, to (i) increase the existing debt baskets for (a) purchase money debt and capital leases, and (b) letter of credit obligations; (ii) provide for increased flexibility to maintain cash in non-US accounts; and (iii) provide for increased flexibility to relocate certain equipment. For additional information regarding the terms of the Loan Agreement, see Note 7. Debt and Note 18. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 9. Leases and Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies. Cash Flow Summary For the Years ended December 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (110,690) $ (71,061) Investing activities (5,147) (15,229) Financing activities 55,602 258,304 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, operating activities used $110.7 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $138.6 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $41.4 million primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $9.5 million, stock-based compensation of $33.3 million, change in right-of-use asset of $2.7 million, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount of $1.0 million, a $7.4 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, inventory write down of $1.6 million allowance for expected credit losses of $0.3 million and loss from disposal of property and equipment of $0.4 million. The cash used in changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $13.5 million was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of 57 Table of C ontents $0.9 million, an increase in inventories of $13.7 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.1 million, an increase in accounts payable of $4.2 million, an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $3.2 million and a decrease in operating lease liability of $3.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, operating activities used $71.1 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $94.0 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $29.1 million primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $5.5 million, stock-based compensation of $25.4 million, change in deferred income taxes of $2.5 million, change in right-of-use asset of $2.2 million, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount of $0.3 million, $2.9 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, inventory write down of $0.8 million and allowance for expected credit losses of $0.4 million. The cash used in changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $6.1 million was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $8.0 million, an increase in inventories of $3.4 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $2.4 million, an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $9.1 million and a decrease of operating lease liability of $1.7 million. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $5.1 million, which was primarily related to purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.4 million, partially offset by sales of property and equipment of $0.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in investin g activities was $15.2 million, which was primarily related to cash used for our acquisition of Sense, net of cash acquired, of $10.9 million and purchases of property, plant and equipment of $4.3 million. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $55.6 million, consisting primarily of $39.1 million of proceeds from borrowings, net of debt discount and issuance costs, $16.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ATM Agreement, net of commissions and fees, proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.5 million and proceeds from ESPP purchase of $0.4 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $258.3 million, consisting primarily of net proceeds from the Colonnade Merger and PIPE Investment of $264.8 million, and proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.5 million, partially offset by repayment of debt of $7.0 million. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts we report as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method. We recognize the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess the fair value of assets acquired, including intangible assets, and liabilities assumed using a variety of methods. Each asset acquired and liability assumed is measured at fair value from the perspective of a market participant. The method used to estimate the fair values of intangible assets incorporates significant estimates and assumptions regarding the estimates a market participant would make in order to evaluate an asset, including a market participants use of the asset, future cash inflows and outflows, probabilities of success, asset lives, and the appropriate discount rates. Any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. Transaction costs and restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred. During the measurement period, which extends no later than one year from the acquisition date, we may record certain adjustments to the carrying value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. 58 Table of C ontents After the measurement period, all adjustments are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations within other income (expense), net. Goodwill The recoverability of goodwill is evaluated annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The Companys impairment evaluation of goodwill consists of a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of its single reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The Companys qualitative assessment considers factors including changes in the macroeconomic, industry and market conditions, a sustained share price or market capitalization decrease, and if there is any other specific event. If this qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, no further analysis is required and goodwill is not impaired. Otherwise, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying amount with an impairment loss recognized for the amount, if any, by which carrying value exceeds estimated fair value. When the Company performs the quantitative test for goodwill, fair values are determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow approach (income approach) and the guideline public company method (market approach). This approach requires the use of significant estimates and assumption including forecasted future cash flows, long-term future growth rates and discount rates. Estimating the fair value of reporting unit requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Costs are computed under the standard cost method, which approximates actual costs determined on the first in, first out basis. We record write-downs of inventories which are obsolete or in excess of anticipated demand. Significant judgment is used in establishing our forecasts of future demand and obsolete material exposures. We consider marketability and product life cycle stage, product development plans, demand forecasts, and assumptions about future demand and market conditions in establishing our estimates. If the actual component usage and product demand are significantly lower than forecast, which may be caused by factors within and outside of our control, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and our customer requirements, we may be required to increase our inventory write-downs. A change in our estimates could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our results of operations.