Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition should be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs involving risks and uncertainties. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Ouster was founded in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we expanded and plan to continue invest in growing our digital lidar product portfolio, increasing the capabilities of our software solutions, and opportunistically expanding our sales and marketing efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, California. We are a leading global provider of lidar sensors and solutions. We design and manufacture high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, which allows each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and enable safe operation and autonomy. We believe our sensors are one of the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. 43 Table of Contents We also provide perception software platforms for smart infrastructure deployments. Our software enables real-time people and object detection, classification, and tracking for actionable, intuitive, and customizable insights while preserving personally identifiable information. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. Our hardware product offering currently includes four models of sensors in our OS product line: the hemispheric field of view OSDome, the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. In 2022, we launched our REV7 OS series scanning sensors powered by L3 chip. REV7 features the all-new OSDome sensor, as well as upgraded OS0, OS1, and OS2 sensors that deliver double the range, enhanced object detection, increased precision and accuracy, and greater reliability compared to our prior generation sensors. We are currently developing our solid-state digital flash (DF) sensors, which is a suite of short, mid, and long-range solid-state digital lidar sensors that provide uniform precision imaging without motion blur across an entire field of view. We also provide perception software platforms for smart infrastructure deployments. Our software enables real-time people and object detection, classification, and tracking for actionable, intuitive, and customizable insights while preserving personally identifiable information. Ouster Gemini is a perception platform designed for smart infrastructure deployments like security and crowd analytics, and is optimized exclusively for Ousters digital lidar sensors. BlueCity is a Gemini-powered solution for traffic operations, planning, and safety. BlueCity provides real-time data analytics and predictions, which can be used to improve traffic and crowd flow efficiency, improve urban planning, advance sustainability, and protect vulnerable road users in a wide range of weather and lighting conditions. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain, and production yields. Our main manufacturing partners are Benchmark and Fabrinet, which manufacture the majority of our products at their facilities in Thailand. We expect this will allow us to continue to reduce our product costs and rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Based on cost quotes for our products in mass production, we anticipate our manufacturing costs per unit will decrease further as production volumes increase. Merger with Velodyne Lidar, Inc. On November 4, 2022, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Velodyne Merger Agreement) with Velodyne Lidar, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Velodyne), Oban Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub I) and Oban Merger Sub II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub II). On February 10, 2023, we completed our merger of equals with Velodyne pursuant to the terms of the Velodyne Merger Agreement with Velodyne, Merger Sub I and Merger Sub II (the Velodyne Merger). The product offerings we acquired through the Velodyne Merger include the VLP-16, VLP-16 Lite, VLP-16 Hi-Res, VLP-32 and VLS-128. These product offerings are in the final stages of their product life cycle and we plan to discontinue manufacturing them in 2025. Amazon Warrant Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), holds a warrant (Amazon Warrant) to acquire shares of our common stock. We assumed the Amazon Warrant as part of the Velodyne Merger. As a result of the issuance and sale by us of an additional 6,045,428shares of common stock in the year ended December 31, 2024 pursuant to the At-Market-Issuance Sales Agreement at prices below the exercise price of the Amazon Warrant, an antidilution adjustment to the terms of the Amazon Warrant occurred, resulting in the increase in the number of shares issuable under the Amazon Warrant by 3,374 shares of common stock and a reduction to the original strike price of the Amazon Warrant to $50.64 per share. As of December 31, 2024, there were 3,267,890 shares of common stock issuable under the Amazon Warrant. The exercise price and the warrant shares issuable upon exercise of the Amazon Warrant are subject to further antidilution adjustments, including in the event we make certain sales of common stock (or securities exercisable or convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock) at a price less than the exercise price of the Amazon Warrant. The Amazon Warrant is subject to vesting; 50% of the unvested Amazon Warrant as of the date of the Velodyne Merger vested as a result of the Velodyne Merger and the remainder will vest over time based on payments by Amazon or its affiliates to us in connection with Amazons purchase of goods and services from us. 44 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Performance Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that our lidar solutions are approaching an inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will improve over time but may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. In 2025, our strategic business objectives include growing the software-attached business, transforming the product portfolio, and executing towards profitability. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested and validated to achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to several years, based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and select our products in their commercial production applications, and that we avoid unexpected cancellations of major purchases of our products. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we aim to continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately, widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of our customers. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors shipped, the mix of existing and new products sold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on prices from signing anticipated large multi-year agreements in the near term with multi-year negotiated pricing. We expect that these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, notwithstanding any short-term price surcharges on our components, we expect that our volume-driven product costs will decrease over time. In addition, we expect that the current uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade relationships may impact our future product costs and margins, particularly to the extent there are significant tariffs or trade restrictions imposed on goods imported from Thailand, Canada, or China that are used in our products. These costs could also impact customer demand as described above under Customers Sales Volumes. Competition. Lidar is an emerging technology, and there are many competitors for this growing market which has created downward pressure on our ASPs. Absent the introduction of new technology, we expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of the simplicity of our digital lidar technology, we are well-positioned to scale more effectively than our competitors and can leverage this scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation. We believe that we are a leading lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully progressing our digital lidar roadmap and developing technologies that will enhance the operating performance of our products. Our L4 sensor prototypes are generating rich point clouds and have moved into validation testing. Our Chronos chip has been fabricated by our foundry partner and is now undergoing in-house testing. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. 45 Table of Contents Supply Chain Continuity. Some of the key components in the products we have designed or are currently designing come from limited or single source suppliers. If these third parties experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or experience shortages in required components, or if they are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these components in required volumes or at all, our supply may be disrupted or be on less favorable terms. For example, we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers or suppliers for our products. It would be time-consuming, and could be costly and impracticable, to begin to use and qualify new manufacturers, components or designs, and such changes could cause significant interruptions in supply and could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries and may subsequently lead to the loss of sales. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate increasing demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multi-billion dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the future. We define our TAM as applications in the automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution lidar sensors. We may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of lidar technology and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: Americas; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations, export/import regulations and additional operational costs. These risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenues, and gross margins. In addition, the current uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade relationships may impact our future international sales, particularly to the extent there are significant tariffs or trade restrictions imposed on goods imported from the United States. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services related to product development, validation, licenses, maintenance under our extended warranty contracts, and shipping. We do not expect these services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the near future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are innovators and early technology adopters incorporating our products into their solutions. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we believe we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their growth and demand rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to improve our own understanding of our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. 46 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, amortization of intangible assets, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross margin is subject to quarterly fluctuations in product mix, price and volume. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco headquarters and our additional R&D facilities in Scotland and Canada and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware and software development of lidar integration products; Custom SoC design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, prototype expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of overhead, facility and information technology (IT) costs that support R&D activities. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expenses is expected to grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Sales and marketing expenses also include amortization expense of intangible assets related to customer relationships associated with the acquisitions and an allocated portion of facility and IT costs that support sales and marketing activities. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. 47 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resources, an allocated portion of facility and IT costs that support general and administrative activities, as well as amortization of intangible assets, fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services, as well as insurance and bank fees. We have experienced and may in the near-term experience additional increases in general and administrative expenses related to legal, accounting, finance and professional services costs associated with litigation activities, hiring more personnel and consultants to support our international activities and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other SEC rules and regulations as a result of being a public company. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expenses will grow over time; however, we expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease as our business grows. Goodwill Impairment Charges In the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $166.7 million. These charges were primarily driven by the decrease in our market capitalization during the period. Our goodwill impairment analysis includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting unit to our total market capitalization. There was no addition to goodwill as of December 31, 2024, and as such, our remaining goodwill balance was nil. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. These amounts will vary based on our respective balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, realized gains and losses related to sales of our available-for-sale investments and the change in fair value of the private placement warrant liability. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. Federal and state deferred tax assets, excluding specific balances due to the Velodyne Merger. The income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, was not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 48 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The following table summarizes key components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 111,101 $ 83,279 Cost of revenue(1) 70,641 74,965 Gross profit 40,460 8,314 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 58,084 91,210 Sales and marketing 27,852 41,639 General and administrative 58,701 81,982 Goodwill impairment charges 166,675 Total operating expenses 144,637 381,506 Loss from operations (104,177) (373,192) Other income (expense): Interest income 8,846 9,038 Interest expense (1,823) (9,303) Other income (expense), net 646 (130) Total other income (expense), net 7,669 (395) Loss before income taxes (96,508) (373,587) Provision for income tax expense 537 523 Net loss $ (97,045) $ (374,110) The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (% of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 64 90 Gross profit 36 10 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 52 110 Sales and marketing 25 50 General and administrative 53 98 Goodwill impairment charges 200 Total operating expenses 130 458 Loss from operations (94) (448) Other income (expense): Interest income 8 11 Interest expense (2) (11) Other income (expense), net 1 Total other income (expense), net Loss before income taxes (94) (448) Provision for income tax expense 1 Net loss (94) % (449) % 49 Table of Contents (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 4,608 $ 2,854 Research and development 18,260 24,551 Sales and marketing 5,347 9,966 General and administrative 12,244 20,354 Total stock-based compensation $ 40,459 $ 57,725 Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2024 - 2023 Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic location: Americas $ 58,429 $ 45,744 $ 12,685 28 % Asia and Pacific 20,158 12,929 7,230 56 Europe, Middle East and Africa 32,513 24,606 7,907 32 Total $ 111,101 $ 83,279 $ 27,822 33 % Revenue Revenue increased by $27.8 million, or 33%, to $111.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $83.3 million for the prior year. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by increased sales of the REV7 sensors as customers increased their purchase levels compared to the prior year period. Geographic Locations Revenue increased across the geographic regions of the Americas, Asia and Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. The revenue increases in those geographic regions were primarily attributable to higher sales of the REV7 sensor. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2024 - 2023 Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 70,641 $ 74,965 $ (4,324) (6) % Cost of revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $4.3 million, or 6%, to $70.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $75.0 million for the prior year. The decrease in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to lower excess and obsolete inventory charges and compensation-related expenses, partially offset by increased shipments over the period. Gross margin rose to 36% for the year ended December 31, 2024 from 10% in the prior year primarily as a result of the factors described above related to the increased sales of REV7 sensor. 50 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2024 - 2023 Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 58,084 $ 91,210 $ (33,126) (36) % Sales and marketing 27,852 41,639 (13,787) (33) General and administrative 58,701 81,982 (23,281) (28) Goodwill impairment charges 166,675 (166,675) 100 % Total operating expenses: $ 144,637 $ 381,506 $ (236,869) (62) % Research and Development Research and development expenses decreased by $33.1 million, or 36%, to $58.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $91.2 million in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in compensation expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost reduction initiatives after the closing of the Velodyne Merger. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $13.8 million, or 33%, to $27.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $41.6 million in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in compensation expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost reduction initiatives after the closing of the Velodyne Merger. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses decreased by $23.3 million, or 28%, to $58.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $82.0 million in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in compensation expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost reduction initiatives after the closing of the Velodyne Merger. Goodwill Impairment Charges There was no addition to goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2024, and as such, our remaining goodwill balance was nil. Goodwill impairment charges were $166.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily driven by the decrease in our market capitalization during the period. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, 2024 - 2023 Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 8,846 $ 9,038 $ (192) (2) % Interest expense (1,823) (9,303) 7,480 (80) Other expense (income), net 646 (130) 776 (597) The year-over-year decrease in interest income was primarily attributable to lower average cash and cash equivalent balances. The year-over-year decrease in interest expense was due to entering into the UBS Agreement in October 2023, which had a lower interest rate than our prior debt arrangement and a reduction in the outstanding debt balance which was paid off in full on August 12, 2024. Other income (expense), net was not material for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 51 Table of Contents Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2024 - 2023 Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Loss before income taxes $ (96,508) $ (373,587) $ 277,079 (74) % Provision for income tax expense (benefit) 537 523 14 3 Effective tax rate (0.56) % (0.14) % Our effective tax rate was (0.56)% for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to our effective tax rate of (0.14)% for the prior year. Our tax expense changed during the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the prior year, primarily due to income tax expense from profitable foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash generated from sales of our products, and sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, and general corporate purposes. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. As of December 31, 2024 we had an accumulated deficit of $913.1 million and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments of approximately $174.6 million. Management believes that our existing sources of liquidity will be adequate to fund our operations for at least twelve months from the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations. We manage our cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions that we believe have high credit quality and, at times, such amounts exceed federally insured limits. The failure of any bank with which we maintain a commercial relationship could cause us to lose our deposits in excess of the federally insured or protected amounts. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. Because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and opportunistically expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We may require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, current macroeconomic conditions, including elevated inflation rates and high interest rates, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. ATM Agreement On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (the ATM Agreement), which expires three years from the May 2, 2022 Form S-3 filing date, pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at the market offering program. Subject to the terms and conditions of the ATM Agreement, we may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us but we are under no obligation to sell any of the shares. Actual sales, if any, will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, capital needs and determinations by us of the appropriate sources of funding. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold 6,045,428 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $57.8 million under the ATM Agreement, and during the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold 2,878,875 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $14.6 million. The remaining availability under the ATM Agreement as of December 31, 2024 is approximately $58.6 million. We currently intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to the ATM Agreement for working capital and general corporate purposes. 52 Table of Contents Prior Debt Arrangements On October 25, 2023, we entered into the Credit Line Account Application and Agreement for Organizations and Businesses (the Credit Agreement) and the Addendum to Credit Line Account Application and Agreement (the Addendum; and the Credit Agreement as amended, modified, and/or supplemented by the Addendum, the UBS Agreement) by and among the Company, UBS Bank USA (the Bank), and UBS Financial Services Inc. The UBS Agreement provided us with a revolving credit line of up to $45.0 million, subject to certain terms and conditions. We initially borrowed $44.0 million, and all of the proceeds were used to refinance and terminate our prior term loan facility. On August 12, 2024, we repaid the $44.0 million principal amount outstanding under the UBS Agreement, along with accrued interest, and terminated all commitments and obligations thereunder. We funded the repayment of the outstanding revolving loans under the UBS Agreement with cash on hand. For additional information regarding the terms of the UBS Agreement, see Note 6. Debt to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2024, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 8. Leases and Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cash Flow Summary For the Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (33,694) $ (137,890) Investing activities 14,652 50,601 Financing activities 15,393 15,657 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, operating activities used $33.7 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $97.0 million, offset by our non-cash charges of $51.9 million primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $9.8 million, stock-based compensation of $40.5 million, amortization of right-of-use asset of $4.9 million and inventory write-down of $2.1 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $11.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable of $1.7 million, decrease in inventory of $4.7 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $21.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $2.5 million, an increase in contract liabilities of $19.0 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $6.3 million,and a decrease in accrued and other liabilities of $28.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, operating activities used $137.9 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $374.1 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $257.7 million primarily consisting of inventory write-down of $10.0 million, interest expense and loss on extinguishment of debt of $4.0 million, goodwill impairment charges of $166.7 million, depreciation and amortization of $17.1 million, stock-based compensation of $57.7 million, loss on write-off of construction in-progress and right-of-use asset impairment of $1.7 million, and amortization of right-of-use asset of $4.5 million. The cash used in changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $21.5 million was primarily due to an increase in inventories of $4.0 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $8.5 million, an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $8.1 million. 53 Table of Contents Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, cash provided by investing activities was $14.7 million, consisting primarily of $162.3 millionproceeds from sales of short-term investments and purchases of short-term investments of $144.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $50.6 million, which was attributed primarily to the Velodyne Merger and proceeds and purchases of short-term investments. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, cash provided by financing activities was $15.4 million, consisting primarily of $57.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ATM Agreement, partially offset by the repayment of indebtedness of $44.0 million under the UBS Agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $15.7 million, consisting primarily of $14.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ATM Agreement and proceeds from employee stock purchase program of $1.2 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts we report as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method. We recognize the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess the fair value of assets acquired, including intangible assets, and liabilities assumed using a variety of methods. Each asset acquired and liability assumed is measured at fair value from the perspective of a market participant. The method used to estimate the fair values of intangible assets incorporates significant estimates and assumptions regarding the estimates a market participant would make in order to evaluate an asset, including a market participants use of the asset, future cash inflows and outflows, probabilities of success, asset lives, and the appropriate discount rates. Any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. Transaction costs and restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred. During the measurement period, which extends no later than one year from the acquisition date, we may record certain adjustments to the carrying value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. After the measurement period, all adjustments are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations within other income (expense), net. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Costs are computed under the standard cost method, which approximates actual costs determined on a first in, first out basis. We record write-downs of inventories which are obsolete or in excess of anticipated demand. Significant judgment is used in establishing our forecasts of future demand and obsolete material exposures. We consider marketability and product life cycle stage, product development plans, demand forecasts, and assumptions about future demand and market conditions in establishing our estimates. If the actual component usage and product demand are significantly lower than forecast, which may be caused by factors within and outside of our control, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and our customer requirements, we may be required to increase our inventory write-downs. A change in our estimates could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our results of operations. 54 Table of Contents We believe that the accounting policy discussed below is critical to understanding our historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised products or services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these products or services. Significant judgment is applied when the Company determines the amount and timing of revenue from the intellectual property (IP) royalties when Company contracts with customers to license rights to its IP. Refer to Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies.