Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition of Ouster, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Ouster) should be read together with the information set forth in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2024 Annual Report) filed with the SEC on March 21, 2025. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs involving risks and uncertainties, including with respect to the potential future impact of tariffs and other trade measures on the Companys business and results of operations. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors in Ousters 2024 Annual Report as updated in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors herein and as may be further updated from time to time in the Companys other filings with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Overview Ouster was founded in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we expanded and plan to continue to invest in growing our digital lidar product portfolio, increasing the capabilities of our software solutions, and opportunistically expanding our sales and marketing efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, California. We are a leading global provider of lidar sensors and solutions. We design and manufacture high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, which allows each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and enable safe operation and autonomy. We believe our sensors are one of the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. Our hardware product offering currently includes four models of sensors in our OS product line: the hemispheric field of view OSDome, the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. In 2022, we launched our REV7 OS series scanning sensors, powered by L3 chip. REV7 features the all-new OSDome sensor, as well as upgraded OS0, OS1, and OS2 sensors that deliver double the range, enhanced object detection, increased precision and accuracy, and greater reliability compared to our prior generation sensors. We are currently developing our solid-state digital flash (DF) sensors, which is a suite of short, mid, and long-range solid-state digital lidar sensors that provide uniform precision imaging without motion blur across an entire field of view. We also provide perception software platforms for smart infrastructure deployments. Our software enables real-time people and object detection, classification, and tracking for actionable, intuitive, and customizable insights while preserving personally identifiable information. Ouster Gemini is a perception platform designed for smart infrastructure deployments like security and crowd analytics, and is optimized exclusively for Ousters digital lidar sensors. BlueCity is a Gemini-powered solution for traffic operations, planning, and safety. BlueCity provides real-time data analytics and predictions, which can be used to improve traffic and crowd flow efficiency, improve urban planning, advance sustainability, and protect vulnerable road users in a wide range of weather and lighting conditions. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain and production yields. Our main manufacturing partners are Benchmark and Fabrinet, which manufacture the majority of our products at their facilities in Thailand. We expect these established partnerships will allow us to continue to reduce our product costs and rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Based on cost quotes for our products in mass production, we anticipate our manufacturing costs per unit will decrease further as production volumes increase. 24 Table of Contents Merger with Velodyne Lidar, Inc. On February 10, 2023, we completed our merger of equals with Velodyne Lidar Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Velodyne Merger). The product offerings we acquired through the Velodyne Merger include the VLP-16, VLP-16 Lite, VLP-16 Hi-Res, VLP-32 and VLS-128. These product offerings are in the final stages of their product life cycle and we plan to discontinue manufacturing them in 2025. Factors Affecting Our Performance Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that our lidar solutions are approaching an inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will improve over time but may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. In 2025, our strategic business objectives include growing the software-attached business, transforming the product portfolio, and executing towards profitability. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested and validated to achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to several years, based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and select our products in their commercial production applications, and that we avoid unexpected cancellations of major purchases of our products. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we aim to continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately, widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of our customers. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors shipped, the mix of existing and new products sold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on prices from signing anticipated large multi-year agreements in the near term with multi-year negotiated pricing. We expect that these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. In addition, we expect that the current uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade relationships may impact our future product costs and margins, particularly to the extent there are significant tariffs or trade restrictions imposed on goods imported from Thailand, Canada, or China that are used in our products. Although we are taking steps to mitigate the impacts of potential tariffs, we do not expect to be able to offset or avoid such costs in full. In addition, our contractual arrangements generally provide that our customers will pay the costs of tariffs. These costs could impact customer demand and adoption as described above under Customers Sales Volumes. Competition. Lidar is an emerging technology, and there are many competitors for this growing market which has created downward pressure on our ASPs. Absent the introduction of new technology, we expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of the simplicity of our digital lidar technology, we are well-positioned to scale more effectively than our competitors and can leverage this scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation.We believe that we are a leading lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position, which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully progressing our digital lidar roadmap and developing technologies that will enhance the operating performance of our products. Our L4 sensor prototypes are generating rich point clouds and have moved into validation testing. Our Chronos chip has been fabricated by our foundry partner and is now undergoing in-house testing. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. 25 Table of Contents Supply Chain Continuity. Some of the key components in the products we have designed or are currently designing come from limited or single source suppliers. If these third parties experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or experience shortages in required components, or if they are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these components in required volumes or at all, our supply may be disrupted or be on less favorable terms. For example, we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers or suppliers for our products. It would be time-consuming, and could be costly and impracticable, to begin to use and qualify new manufacturers, components or designs, and such changes could cause significant interruptions in supply and could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries and may subsequently lead to the loss of sales. In addition, we are monitoring impact of the recent tariff and trade policy actions taken by the United States and foreign governments on our supply chain. We are considering ways to mitigate the impact of these tariff and trade policy actions and the uncertainties arising from the rapidly changing global trade environment on our supply chain; however, there can be no assurances that such mitigation efforts will be successful. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate increasing demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multi-billion dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the future. We define our TAM as applications in the automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well-positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution lidar sensors. We may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of lidar technology and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariff and trade policy actions of governments related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: Americas; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes, tariff and trade policy actions of foreign governments, legal obligations, export/import regulations and additional operational costs. These risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenues, and gross margins. In addition, the current uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade relationships may impact our future international sales, particularly to the extent there are significant tariffs or trade restrictions imposed on goods imported from the United States. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services or obligations related to product development, validation, IP license agreements, maintenance under our extended warranty contracts, and shipping. We do not expect these services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the near future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are innovators and early technology adopters incorporating our products into their solutions. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we believe we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their growth and demand rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to improve our own understanding of our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. 26 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, amortization of intangible assets, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross margin is subject to quarterly fluctuations in product mix, price and volume. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco headquarters and our additional R&D facilities in Scotland and Canada and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware and software development of lidar integration products; Custom SoC design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, prototype expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of overhead, facility and information technology (IT) costs that support R&D activities. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expenses is expected to grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Sales and marketing expenses also include amortization expense of intangible assets related to customer relationships associated with the acquisitions and an allocated portion of facility and IT costs that support sales and marketing activities. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resources, an allocated portion of facility and IT costs that support general and administrative activities, as well as amortization of intangible assets, fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services, as well as insurance and bank fees. We have experienced and may in the near-term experience additional increases in general and administrative expenses related to legal, accounting, finance and professional services costs associated with litigation activities, hiring more personnel and consultants to support our international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other SEC rules and regulations as a result of being a public company. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expenses will grow over time; however, we expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease as our business grows. 27 Table of Contents Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. These amounts will vary based on our respective balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, realized gains and losses related to sales of our available-for-sale investments and the change in fair value of the private placement warrant liability. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. Federal and state deferred tax assets, excluding specific balances due to the Velodyne Merger. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was not material to the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations: The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 32,632 $ 25,944 Cost of revenue(1) 19,149 18,519 Gross profit 13,483 7,425 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 14,985 13,806 Sales and marketing 6,423 6,860 General and administrative 15,905 12,580 Total operating expenses 37,313 33,246 Loss from operations (23,830) (25,821) Other income (expense): Interest income 1,705 2,651 Interest expense (741) Other income, net 303 193 Total other income, net 2,008 2,103 Loss before income taxes (21,822) (23,718) Provision for income tax expense 195 131 Net loss $ (22,017) $ (23,849) 28 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (% of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 59 71 Gross profit 41 29 Operating expenses (1): Research and development 46 53 Sales and marketing 20 26 General and administrative 49 48 Total operating expenses 114 127 Loss from operations (73) (98) Other income (expense): Interest income 5 10 Interest expense (3) Other income (expense), net 1 1 Total other income, net 6 8 Loss before income taxes (67) (90) Provision for income tax expense 1 1 Net loss (68) % (91) % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,137 $ 913 Research and development 4,305 4,188 Sales and marketing 1,106 1,400 General and administrative 1,950 2,903 Total stock-based compensation $ 8,498 $ 9,404 29 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic location: Americas $ 15,528 $ 10,624 $ 4,904 46 % Asia and Pacific 12,464 6,149 6,315 103 Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,640 9,171 (4,531) (49) Total $ 32,632 $ 25,944 $ 6,688 26 % Revenue Revenue increased by $6.7 million or 26%, to $32.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $25.9 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by increased ASPs, increased sensor volumes as customers increased their purchase levels compared to the prior year period and patent royalties from a long-term IP license agreement. We recorded $1.5 million revenue from deferred past royalties in the first quarter of 2025 and expects to record revenue from this agreement in future periods when it satisfies its performance obligations under the license agreement. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 19,149 $ 18,519 $ 630 3 % Cost of revenue increased by $0.6 million, or 3%, to $19.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $18.5 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to higher product manufacturing, and stock based compensation costs, partially offset by lower excess and obsolete inventory charges over the period. Gross margin rose to 41% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 29% in the prior year period primarily as a result of increased ASPs, increased sensor volumes and the patent royalties generated from a long-term IP license agreement. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 14,985 $ 13,806 $ 1,179 9 % Sales and marketing 6,423 6,860 (437) (6) General and administrative 15,905 12,580 3,325 26 Total operating expenses $ 37,313 $ 33,246 $ 4,067 12 % Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 9%, to $15.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $13.8 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in compensation expenses for employees engaged in research and product development function. 30 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $0.4 million, or 6%, to $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $6.9 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in sales and marketing compensation, personnel related expenses and lower amortization of acquired customer relationship intangible assets. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $3.3 million, or 26%, to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $12.6 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to higher litigation and settlement activities. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1,705 $ 2,651 $ (946) (36) % Interest expense $ $ (741) $ 741 (100) Other income (expense), net $ 303 $ 193 $ 110 57 The year-over-year decrease in interest income was due to lower balances in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments along with lower interest rates received in the three months ended March 31, 2025. The year-over-year decrease in interest expense was due to repayment of the UBS Loan in August 2024. Other income (expense), net was not material for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Income Taxes We were subject to income taxes in the United States and miscellaneous foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Our income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was not material to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash generated from sales of our products, and sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. As of March 31, 2025 we had an accumulated deficit of $935.1 million and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments of $170.8 million. Management believes that our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations. 31 Table of Contents We manage our cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions that we believe have high credit quality and, at times, such amounts exceed federally insured limits. The failure of any bank with which we maintain a commercial relationship could cause us to lose our deposits in excess of the federally insured or protected amounts. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. Because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and opportunistically expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We may require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, current macroeconomic conditions, including elevated inflation rates and high interest rates, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. ATM Agreement On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (the ATM Agreement), pursuant to which we could offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at-the-market offering program. We terminated the ATM Agreement in April 2025 in anticipation of the scheduled expiration of our registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-264600). We filed a new registration statement on Form S-3 on May 2, 2025 (File No. 333-286936), which as of the date of this Quarterly Report has not been declared effective by the SEC. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we did not make any sales under the ATM Agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we sold 343,571 shares, under the ATM Agreement, generating net proceeds of $2.3 million. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2025, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report as well as Note 8. Leases and Note. 9 Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Annual Report. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows from continuing operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (4,879) $ (5,722) Investing activities $ 12,590 $ (469) Financing activities $ 660 $ 3,653 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, operating activities used $4.9 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $22.0 million, offset by our non-cash charges of $11.2 million, primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $1.8 million, stock-based compensation of $8.5 million, amortization of right-of-use asset of $1.2 million offset by accretion or amortization on short-term investments of $0.8 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5.9 million were primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable of $4.1 million, decrease in inventory of $1.1 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of $4.1 million, an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $8.7 million, a decrease in contract liabilities of $6.5 million and decrease in operating lease liability of $1.7 million. 32 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2024, operating activities used $5.7 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $23.8 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $12.4 million primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $2.9 million, stock-based compensation of $9.4 million, change in right-of-use asset of $1.2 million and inventory write down of $0.7 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 million were primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $6.1 million, an increase in inventory of $1.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $2.6 million and an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $1.8 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash provided by investing activities was $12.6 million, consisting primarily of $27.0 million proceeds from short-term investmentsand purchases of short-term investments of $13.9 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash used in investing activities was $0.5 million, which was related to purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by sales of short-term investments. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2025, cash provided by financing activities was $0.7 million, primarily due to certain proceeds received to fund employees tax obligation for vested RSUs. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by financing activities was $3.7 million, consisting primarily of $3.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ATM Agreement Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2024 Annual Report. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since the filing of our 2024 Annual Report. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Certain of these policies require the application of subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience, changes in the business environment and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different estimates that could have been applied in the current period or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely can result in a material impact on our financial condition and operating results in the current and future periods.