Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; reviewing and approving any related party transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC prior to us entering into such transaction; and reviewing with management, the independent registered public accounting firm, and our legal advisors, as appropriate, any legal, regulatory or compliance matters, including any correspondence with regulators or government agencies and any employee complaints or published reports that raise material issues regarding our financial statements or accounting policies and any significant changes in accounting standards or rules promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 44 Table of Contents Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee We have a nominating and corporate governance committee comprised of Messrs. Flores, Henry and De Zrraga. Mr. Henry serves as chair of the nominating and corporate governance committee. All members of our nominating and corporate governance committee are independent of and unaffiliated with our Sponsor and our underwriters. We have adopted a nominating and corporate governance committee charter, which details the purpose and responsibilities of the nominating and corporate governance committee, including: identifying, screening and reviewing individuals qualified to serve as directors, consistent with criteria approved by the board, and recommending to the board of directors candidates for nomination for election at the annual meeting of shareholders or to fill vacancies on the board of directors; developing and recommending to the board of directors and overseeing implementation of our corporate governance guidelines; coordinating and overseeing the annual self-evaluation of the board of directors, its committees, individual directors and management in the governance of the Company; and reviewing on a regular basis our overall corporate governance and recommending improvements as and when necessary. The charter provides that the nominating and corporate governance committee may, in its sole discretion, retain or obtain the advice of, and terminate, any search firm to be used to identify director candidates, and will be directly responsible for approving the search firms fees and other retention terms. We have not formally established any specific, minimum qualifications that must be met or skills that are necessary for directors to possess. In general, in identifying and evaluating nominees for director, the board of directors considers educational background, diversity of professional experience, knowledge of our business, integrity, professional reputation, independence, wisdom, and the ability to represent the best interests of our shareholders. Prior to our initial business combination, holders of our public shares will not have the right to recommend director candidates for nomination to our board of directors. Compensation Committee Our board of directors has established a compensation committee of the board of directors. Messrs. Flores, Henry and De Zrraga serve as the members of the compensation committee, and Mr. Flores chairs the compensation committee. All members of our compensation committee are independent of and unaffiliated with our Sponsor and our underwriters. We have adopted a compensation committee charter, which details the principal functions of the compensation committee, including: reviewing and approving on an annual basis the corporate goals and objectives relevant to our chief executive officers compensation, evaluating our chief executive officers performance in light of such goals and objectives and determining and approving the remuneration (if any) of our chief executive officers based on such evaluation; reviewing and making recommendations to our board of directors with respect to the compensation, and any incentive compensation and equity based plans that are subject to board approval of all of our other officers; reviewing our executive compensation policies and plans; implementing and administering our incentive compensation equity-based remuneration plans; assisting management in complying with our proxy statement and annual report disclosure requirements; 45 Table of Contents approving all special perquisites, special cash payments and other special compensation and benefit arrangements for our officers and employees; producing a report on executive compensation to be included in our annual proxy statement; and reviewing, evaluating and recommending changes, if appropriate, to the remuneration for directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as indicated above, other than the payment of customary fees we may elect to make to members of our board of directors for director service and payment to an affiliate of our Sponsor of $10,000 per month, for up to 24 months, for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support and reimbursement of expenses, no compensation of any kind, including finders, consulting or other similar fees, will be paid to any of our existing shareholders, officers, directors or any of their respective affiliates, prior to, or for any services they render in order to effectuate the consummation of an initial business combination. Accordingly, it is likely that prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, the compensation committee will only be responsible for the review and recommendation of any compensation arrangements to be entered into in connection with such initial business combination. The charter provides that the compensation committee may, in its sole discretion, retain or obtain the advice of a compensation consultant, independent legal counsel or other adviser and will be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of any such adviser. However, before engaging or receiving advice from a compensation consultant, external legal counsel or any other adviser, the compensation committee will consider the independence of each such adviser, including the factors required by NYSE and the SEC. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees. We have filed a copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as an exhibit to our registration statement in connection with the Public Offering. You are able to review this document by accessing our public filings at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the committees of our board of directors will be provided without charge upon request from us in writing at 1400 Centrepark Blvd, Ste 810, West Palm Beach, FL 33401 or by telephone at (561) 712-7860. If we make any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics other than technical, administrative or other non-substantive amendments, or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions requiring disclosure under applicable SEC or NYSE rules, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website. Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Companys executive officers, directors, and persons who beneficially own more than ten percent of a registered class of the Companys equity securities, to file with the SEC initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership of the Companys common stock. Such officers, directors, and persons are required by SEC regulation to furnish the Company with copies of all Section 16(a) forms that they file with the SEC. Based solely on a review of the copies of such forms that were received by the Company, except for a Form 4 filed on October 26, 2020 for the Sponsor and Mr. Sambuco to report one transaction, the Company is not aware of any failures to file reports or report transactions in a timely manner during the year ended December 31, 2020. 46 Table of Contents ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. None of our officers or directors have received any cash compensation for services rendered to us. We will pay our Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to members of our management team. In addition, our Sponsor, officers and directors, or any of their respective affiliates will be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. Our audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to our Sponsor, officers or directors, or our or their affiliates. Any such payments prior to an initial business combination will be made from funds held outside the Trust Account. Other than quarterly audit committee review of such reimbursements, we do not expect to have any additional controls in place governing our reimbursement payments to our directors and officers for their out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with our activities on our behalf in connection with identifying and consummating an initial business combination. Other than these payments and reimbursements, no compensation of any kind, including finders and consulting fees, will be paid by the Company to our Sponsor, officers and directors, or any of their respective affiliates, prior to completion of our initial business combination. After the completion of our initial business combination, directors or members of our management team who remain with us may be paid consulting or management fees from the combined company. All of these fees will be fully disclosed to shareholders, to the extent then known, in the proxy solicitation materials or tender offer materials furnished to our shareholders in connection with a proposed business combination. We have not established any limit on the amount of such fees that may be paid by the combined company to our directors or members of management. It is unlikely the amount of such compensation will be known at the time of the proposed business combination, because the directors of the post-combination business will be responsible for determining officer and director compensation. Any compensation to be paid to our officers will be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by a compensation committee constituted solely by independent directors or by a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors. We do not intend to take any action to ensure that members of our management team maintain their positions with us after the consummation of our initial business combination, although it is possible that some or all of our officers and directors may negotiate employment or consulting arrangements to remain with us after our initial business combination. The existence or terms of any such employment or consulting arrangements to retain their positions with us may influence our managements motivation in identifying or selecting a target business but we do not believe that the ability of our management to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will be a determining factor in our decision to proceed with any potential business combination. We are not party to any agreements with our officers and directors that provide for benefits upon termination of employment. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS. We have no compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance. The following table sets forth information regarding the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares as of January 15, 2021, by: each person known by us to be a beneficial owner of more than 5% of our outstanding ordinary shares of, on an as-converted basis; each of our officers and directors; and all of our officers and directors as a group. The following table is based on 25,000,000 ordinary shares outstanding as of March 9, 2021, of which 20,000,000 were Class A shares and 5,000,000 were Class B shares. Unless otherwise indicated, it is believed that all persons named in the table below have sole voting and investment power with respect to all ordinary shares beneficially owned by them. 47 Table of Contents Name and Address of Beneficial Owner (1) Number of Shares Beneficially Owned (2) Percentage of Outstanding Ordinary Shares Colonnade Sponsor LLC (3) 5,000,000 20.0 % Joseph S. Sambuco (3) Remy W. Trafelet (3) James C. Flores (3) mil W. Henry, Jr. (3) Manny De Zrraga (3) (1) Unless otherwise noted, the business address of each of our shareholders listed is 1400 Centrepark Blvd, Ste 810, West Palm Beach, FL 33401. (2) Interests shown consist solely of Founder Shares, classified as Class B ordinary shares. Such shares will automatically convert into Class A ordinary shares concurrently with or immediately following the consummation of our initial business combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment. (3) Colonnade Sponsor LLC is the record holder of such shares. Mr. Sambuco is the manager, and the members of the Companys management team are among the members, of Colonnade Sponsor LLC. Messrs. Sambuco and Trafelet are among the members who share voting and investment discretion with respect to the shares held of record by Colonnade Sponsor LLC. Each of the foregoing individuals disclaims any beneficial ownership of the securities held by Colonnade Sponsor LLC other than to the extent of any pecuniary interest he may have therein, directly or indirectly. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. Founder Shares On June 30, 2020, the Sponsor paid $25,000, or approximately $0.004 per share, to cover certain of our offering costs relating to the Public Offering in exchange for 5,750,000 Founder Shares. The Sponsor surrendered 750,000 Founder Shares to the Company for no consideration in connection with the underwriters election to not exercise the overallotment option relating to the Public Offering at the end of the 45-day option period on October 5, 2020. In connection with the Business Combination, each of the 5,000,000 Founder Shares will convert on a one-for-one basis into one share of Ouster PubCo common stock. Private Placement Warrants The Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 6,000,000 private placement warrants, each exercisable to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, or $6,000,000 in the aggregate, in connection with the Public Offering. The private placement warrants are identical to the warrants sold in the Public Offering except that the private placement warrants, so long as they are held by the Sponsor or its permitted transferees, (i) are not be redeemable by the Company, (ii) may not (including the Class A ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants), subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the holders until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination, (iii) may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis and (iv) are entitled to registration rights. In connection with the Business Combination, each of the 6,000,000 private placement warrants will convert automatically into one warrant to purchase one share of Ouster PubCo common stock pursuant to the warrant agreement between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, dated as of August 20, 2020. 48 Table of Contents Subscription Agreements Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors (the PIPE Investors) and with Colonnade WPB LLC, an affiliate of the Sponsor (the Sponsor Related PIPE Investor), pursuant to which the PIPE Investors and Sponsor Related PIPE Investor have subscribed for shares of Ouster PubCo common stock (the PIPE Investment). The Sponsor Related PIPE Investor is expected to fund $11,750,000 of the PIPE Investment, for which it will receive 1,175,000 shares of Ouster PubCo common stock. The Sponsor Related PIPE Investor is controlled by our Chairman Joseph S. Sambuco. The PIPE Investment will be consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the Business Combination. Administrative Services Agreement We currently utilize office space at 1400 Centrepark Boulevard, Suite 810, West Palm Beach, FL 33401 from the Sponsor as our executive offices. Commencing upon consummation of the Public Offering, we pay the Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to members of our management team. Upon completion of our initial business combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Related Party Note and Advances On June 30, 2020, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 to be used, in part, for transaction costs incurred in connection with the Public Offering pursuant to an unsecured promissory note. The promissory note was non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the completion of the Public Offering. The outstanding balance of $126,005 under the promissory note was paid in full in connection with the closing of the Public Offering. Our officers and directors are entitled to reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses related to identifying, investigating, negotiating and completing an initial business combination. Our audit committee reviews on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to the Sponsor, our officers, directors or its or their affiliates. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required on a non-interest basis. If we complete the business combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that the business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into private placement warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. Except as set forth above, the terms of such loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Registration Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, private placement warrants and the Class A ordinary shares underlying such private placement warrants and private placement warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans have registration rights to require us to register a sale of any of our securities held by them pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to our completion of our initial business combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. In connection with the Business Combination, the registration rights agreement will be amended and restated. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. The following is a summary of fees paid or to be paid to Marcum LLP, or Marcum, for services rendered. 49 Table of Contents Audit Fees . Audit fees consist of fees billed for professional services rendered for the audit of our year-end financial statements and services that are normally provided by Marcum in connection with regulatory filings. The aggregate fees billed by Marcum for professional services rendered for the audit of our annual consolidated financial statements, review of the financial information included in our Forms 10-Q for the respective periods and other required filings with the SEC for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $76,000. The above amounts include interim procedures and audit fees, as well as attendance at audit committee meetings. Audit-Related Fees . Audit-related services consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to performance of the audit or review of our consolidated financial statements and are not reported under Audit Fees. These services include attest services that are not required by statute or regulation and consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards. We did not pay Marcum for consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. Tax Fees . We did not pay Marcum for tax planning and tax advice for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. All Other Fees . We did not pay Marcum for other services for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. Pre-Approval Policy Our audit committee was formed upon the consummation of our Public Offering. As a result, the audit committee did not pre-approve all of the foregoing services, although any services rendered prior to the formation of our audit committee were approved by our board of directors. Since the formation of our audit committee, and on a going-forward basis, the audit committee has and will pre-approve all auditing services and permitted non-audit services to be performed for us by our auditors, including the fees and terms thereof (subject to the de minimis exceptions for non-audit services described in the Exchange Act which are approved by the audit committee prior to the completion of the audit). PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: (1) Financial Statements Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Consolidated Balance Sheet F-3 Consolidated Statement of Operations F-4 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity F-5 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows F-6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-7 (2) Financial Statement Schedule None. (3) Exhibits We hereby file as part of this report the exhibits listed in the attached Exhibit Index. Exhibits which are incorporated herein by reference can be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such material can also be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates or on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. 50 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page No. Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020 F-3 Consolidated Statement of Operations for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 F-4 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 F-5 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 F-6 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-7 F-1 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Colonnade Acquisition Corp. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Colonnade Acquisition Corp. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020, the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders equity and cash flows for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial statements). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Explanatory Paragraph Going Concern The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As more fully described in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Companys business plan is dependent on the completion of a business combination and the Companys cash and working capital as of December 31, 2020 are not sufficient to complete its planned activities, has a significant working capital deficiency, has incurred significant losses and needs to raise additional funds to meet its obligations and sustain its operations. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Managements plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audit we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. / S / Marcum LLP Marcum LLP We have served as the Companys auditor since 2020 . Houston, Texas March 8, 2021 F-2 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. BALANCE SHEET DECEMBER 31, 2020 ASSETS Current Assets Cash $ 697,957 Prepaid expenses 314,138 Total Current Assets 1,012,095 Cash and marketable securities held in Trust Account 200,061,054 Total Assets $ 201,073,149 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current liabilities Accrued expenses $ 2,348,246 Accrued offering costs 100 Total Current Liabilities 2,348,346 Deferred underwriting fee payable 7,000,000 Total Liabilities 9,348,346 Commitments Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, 18,666,781 shares at redemption value 186,724,794 Shareholders Equity Preference shares, $0.0001 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized; none issued and outstanding Class A ordinary shares, $0.0001 par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; 1,333,219 shares issued and outstanding (excluding 18,666,781 shares subject to possible redemption) 133 Class B ordinary shares, $0.0001 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; 5,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 500 Additional paid-in capital 7,701,942 Accumulated deficit (2,702,566 ) Total Shareholders Equity 5,000,009 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 201,073,149 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-3 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 4, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Formation and operational costs $ 2,763,620 Loss from operations (2,763,620 ) Other income: Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account 57,914 Unrealized gain on marketable securities held in Trust Account 3,140 Other income 61,054 Net loss $ (2,702,566 ) Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Class A ordinary shares subject to redemption 18,938,199 Basic and diluted net income per share, Class A ordinary shares subject to redemption $ 0.00 Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, ordinary shares 6,150,329 Basic and diluted net loss per share, ordinary shares $ (0.45 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-4 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY FOR THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 4, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Class A Ordinary Shares Class B Ordinary Shares Additional Paid-in Accumulated Total Shareholders Shares Amount Shares Amount Capital Deficit Equity Balance June 4, 2020 (inception) $ $ $ $ $ Issuance of Class B ordinary shares to Sponsor 5,750,000 575 24,425 25,000 Sale of 20,000,000 Units, net of underwriting discounts and offering costs 20,000,000 2,000 188,400,369 188,402,369 Sale of 6,000,000 Private Placement Warrants 6,000,000 6,000,000 Forfeiture of Founder Shares (750,000 ) (75 ) 75 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption (18,666,781 ) (1,867 ) (186,722,927 ) (186,724,794 ) Net loss (2,702,566 ) (2,702,566 ) Balance December 31, 2020 1,333,219 $ 133 5,000,000 $ 500 $ 7,701,942 $ (2,702,566 ) $ 5,000,009 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-5 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD FROM JUNE 4, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Net loss $ (2,702,566 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities: Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account (57,914 ) Unrealized gain on marketable securities held in Trust Account (3,140 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Prepaid expenses (314,138 ) Accrued expenses 2,348,246 Net cash used in operating activities (729,512 ) Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Investment of cash in Trust Account (200,000,000 ) Net cash used in investing activities (200,000,000 ) Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Proceeds from sale of Units, net of underwriting discounts paid 196,000,000 Proceeds from sale of Private Placement Warrants 6,000,000 Proceeds from promissory note related party 126,005 Repayment of promissory note related party (126,005 ) Payment of offering costs (572,531 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 201,427,469 Net Change in Cash 697,957 Cash Beginning Cash Ending $ 697,957 Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities: Initial classification of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption $ 189,422,360 Change in value of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption $ (2,697,566 ) Deferred underwriting fee payable 7,000,000 Offering costs paid directly by Sponsor from proceeds from issuance of Class B ordinary shares $ 25,000 Offering costs included in accrued offering costs $ 100 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-6 Table of Contents COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS Colonnade Acquisition Corp. (the Company) is a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on June 4, 2020. The Company was formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (Business Combination). Although the Company is not limited to a particular industry or geographic region for purposes of completing a Business Combination, the Company intends to focus on industries that complements the Companys management teams expertise and network of relationships in the natural resources, energy, real estate and agricultural industries. The Company is an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. The Company has one subsidiary, Beam Merger Sub, Inc. (formerly known as C-Sweet Sub, Inc,), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Delaware on December 15, 2020 (Merger Sub). As of December 31, 2020, the Company had not commenced any operations. All activity for the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 relates to the Companys formation, the initial public offering (Initial Public Offering), which is described below, identifying a target company for a Business Combination, and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of Ouster, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Ouster) (see Note 6). The Company will not generate any operating revenues until after the completion of a Business Combination, at the earliest. The Company generates non-operating income in the form of interest income from the proceeds derived from the Initial Public Offering. The registration statement for the Companys Initial Public Offering became effective on August 20, 2020. On August 25, 2020, the Company consummated the Initial Public Offering of 20,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $200,000,000, which is described in Note 3. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company consummated the sale of 6,000,000 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Colonnade Sponsor LLC (the Sponsor), generating gross proceeds of $6,000,000, which is described in Note 4. Transaction costs amounted to $11,597,631, consisting of $4,000,000 of underwriting fees, $7,000,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $597,631 of other offering costs. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering on August 25, 2020, an amount of $200,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account) invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less, or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund meeting certain conditions of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the funds in the Trust Account to the Companys shareholders, as described below. The Companys management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward completing a Business Combination. The Company must complete its initial Business Combination with one or more target businesses that together have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting commissions held in the Trust Account) at the time of the agreement to enter into a Business Combination. The Company will only complete a Business Combination if the post-Business Combination company owns or acquires 50% or more of the issued and outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target business sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully effect a Business Combination. The Company will provide its shareholders with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their Public Shares upon the completion of a Business Combination either (i) in connection with a shareholder meeting called to approve the Business Combination or (ii) by means of a tender offer. The decision as to whether the Company will seek shareholder approval of a Business Combination or conduct a tender offer will be made by the Company. The shareholders will be entitled to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the amount held in the Trust Account (initially $10.00 per share), calculated as of two business days prior to the completion of a Business Combination, including any pro rata interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the Company to pay its tax obligations. There will be no redemption rights upon the completion of a Business Combination with respect to the Companys warrants. F-7 Table of Contents If the Company seeks shareholder approval, the Company will complete a Business Combination only if it receives an ordinary resolution under Cayman Islands law approving a Business Combination, which requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders who vote at a general meeting of the Company. If a shareholder vote is not required under applicable law or stock exchange listing requirements and the Company does not decide to hold a shareholder vote for business or other reasons, the Company will, pursuant to its Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, conduct the redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and file tender offer documents containing substantially the same information as would be included in a proxy statement with the SEC prior to completing a Business Combination. If the Company seeks shareholder approval in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor has agreed to vote its Founder Shares (as defined in Note 5) and any Public Shares purchased in or after the Initial Public Offering in favor of approving a Business Combination and to waive its redemption rights with respect to any such shares in connection with a shareholder vote to approve a Business Combination. However, in no event will the Company redeem its Public Shares in an amount that would cause its net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. In such case, the Company would not proceed with the redemption of its Public Shares and the related Business Combination, and instead may search for an alternate Business Combination. Additionally, each public shareholder may elect to redeem its Public Shares, without voting, and if they do vote, irrespective of whether they vote for or against a proposed Business Combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company seeks shareholder approval of a Business Combination and it does not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, the Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association provides that a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of such shareholder or any other person with whom such shareholder is acting in concert or as a group (as defined under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), will be restricted from redeeming its shares with respect to more than an aggregate of 20% of the Public Shares without the Companys prior written consent. The Sponsor has agreed (a) to waive its redemption rights with respect to any Founder Shares and Public Shares held by it in connection with the completion of a Business Combination and (b) not to propose an amendment to the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (i) to modify the substance or timing of the Companys obligation to redeem 100% of the Public Shares if the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period (as defined below) or (ii) with respect to any other provision relating to shareholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity, unless the Company provides the public shareholders with the opportunity to redeem their Public Shares in conjunction with any such amendment and (iii) to waive its rights to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to the Founder Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination. The Company will have until August 25, 2022 (the Combination Period) to complete a Business Combination. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the Company will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than 10 business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the Companys board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to its obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. The Sponsor has agreed to waive its liquidation rights with respect to the Founder Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. However, if the Sponsor acquires Public Shares in or after the Initial Public Offering, such Public Shares will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. The underwriters have agreed to waive their rights to their deferred underwriting commission (see Note 6) held in the Trust Account in the event the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and, in such event, such amounts will be included with the funds held in the Trust Account that will be available to fund the redemption of the Public Shares. In the event of such distribution, it is possible that the per share value of the assets remaining available for distribution will be less than the Initial Public Offering price per Unit ($10.00). F-8 Table of Contents The Sponsor has agreed that it will be liable to the Company, if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold to the Company, or by a prospective target business with which the Company has entered into a written letter of intent, confidentiality or other similar agreement or business combination agreement, reduce the amount of funds in the Trust Account to below the lesser of (1) $10.00 per Public Share and (2) the actual amount per Public Share held in the Trust Account as of the date of the liquidation of the Trust Account, if less than $10.00 per Public Share due to reductions in the value of trust assets, less taxes payable. This liability will not apply to any claims by a third party or prospective target business who executed a waiver of any and all rights to the monies held in the Trust Account nor will it apply to any claims under the Companys indemnity of the underwriters of the Initial Public Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, the Sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third-party claims. The Company will seek to reduce the possibility that the Sponsor will have to indemnify the Trust Account due to claims of creditors by endeavoring to have all vendors, service providers (other than the Companys independent public accountants), prospective target businesses or other entities with which the Company does business, execute agreements with the Company waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the Trust Account. Risks and Uncertainties Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on the Companys financial position, results of its operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of these consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Liquidity and Going Concern As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $697,957 in its operating bank accounts, $200,061,054 in securities held in the Trust Account to be used for a Business Combination or to repurchase or redeem its ordinary shares in connection therewith and working capital deficit of $1,336,251. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $61,000 of the amount on deposit in the Trust Account represented interest income, which is available to pay the Companys tax obligations. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, the Company will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. The Company will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its Sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. The Companys officers, directors and Sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet the Companys working capital needs. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain additional financing. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. The Company cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern through August 25, 2022, the deadline to complete a Business Combination pursuant to the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (unless otherwise amended by stockholders). These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements are presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority owned subsidiary where the Company has the ability to exercise control. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Activities in relation to the non-controlling interest are not considered to be significant and are, therefore, not presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Emerging Growth Company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. F-9 Table of Contents Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Companys consolidated financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Use of Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Making estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which management considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company did not have any cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020. Marketable Securities Held in Trust Account At December 31, 2020, substantially all of the assets held in the Trust Account were held in money market funds, which primarily invest in U.S. Treasury Bills. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption The Company accounts for its Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. The Companys Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740). ASC 740 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. ASC 740 additionally requires a valuation allowance to be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. ASC 740 also clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts accrued for interest and penalties as of December 31, 2020. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. The Company is subject to income tax examinations by major taxing authorities since inception. F-10 Table of Contents The Company is considered an exempted Cayman Islands Company and is presently not subject to income taxes or income tax filing requirements in the Cayman Islands or the United States. As such, the Companys tax provision was zero for the periods presented. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Net income (loss) per ordinary share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The Company has not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Public Offering and Private Placement to purchase an aggregate of 16,000,000 shares in the calculation of diluted loss per share, since the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events and the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. The Companys statement of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per share for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per ordinary share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on marketable securities held by the Trust Account by the weighted average number of Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net loss, adjusted for income or loss on marketable securities attributable to Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable ordinary shares include Founder Shares and non-redeemable ordinary shares as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable ordinary shares participate in the income or loss on marketable securities based on non-redeemable ordinary shares proportionate interest. The following table reflects the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per ordinary share (in dollars, except per share amounts): For Period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption Numerator: Earnings allocable to Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption Interest income $ 54,051 Unrealized gain on investments held in Trust Account 2,931 Net income allocable to Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption $ 56,982 Denominator: Weighted Average Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 18,938,199 Basic and diluted net income per share $ 0.00 Non-Redeemable Ordinary Shares Numerator: Net Loss minus Net Earnings Net loss $ (2,702,566 ) Less: Net income allocable to Class A Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption (56,982 ) Non-Redeemable Net Loss $ (2,759,548 ) Denominator: Weighted Average Non-Redeemable Ordinary Shares Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 6,150,329 Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (0.45 ) Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of a cash account in a financial institution which, at times may exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage of $250,000. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has not experienced losses on this account and management believes the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such account. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, primarily due to their short-term nature. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. F-11 Table of Contents NOTE 3. INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING Pursuant to the Initial Public Offering, the Company sold 20,000,000 Units, at a purchase price of $10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one Class A ordinary share and one-half of one redeemable warrant (Public Warrant). Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one Class A ordinary share at an exercise price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 7). NOTE 4. PRIVATE PLACEMENT Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 6,000,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, for an aggregate purchase price of $6,000,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable for one Class A ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 7). The proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants were added to the net proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants held in the Trust Account will be used to fund the redemption of the Public Shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law) and the Private Placement Warrants will expire worthless. NOTE 5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Founder Shares On June 30, 2020, the Sponsor paid an aggregate of $25,000 to cover certain offering costs of the Company in consideration for 5,750,000 of the Companys Class B ordinary shares (the Founder Shares). The Founder Shares included an aggregate of up to 750,000 shares that were subject to forfeiture by the Sponsor to the extent that the underwriters over-allotment was not exercised in full or in part, so that the number of Founder Shares would collectively represent 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering. On October 9, 2020, the underwriters election to exercise their over-allotment option expired unexercised, resulting in the forfeiture of 750,000 Founder Shares. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2020, there are 5,000,000 Founder Shares issued and outstanding (see Note 7). The Sponsor has agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of its Founder Shares until the earlier to occur of: (A) one year after the completion of a Business Combination; and (B) subsequent to a Business Combination, (x) if the closing price of the Class A ordinary shares equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for share sub-divisions, share capitalizations, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after a Business Combination, or (y) the date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger, amalgamation, share exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of the Companys shareholders having the right to exchange their Class A ordinary shares for cash, securities or other property. Administrative Services Agreement The Company entered into an agreement whereby, commencing on August 21, 2020, the Company will pay the Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services. Upon completion of a Business Combination or its liquidation, the Company will cease paying these monthly fees. For the period from June 4, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, the Company incurred and paid $40,000 of such fees. Due to Sponsor The Sponsor advanced $600,000 to the Company in anticipation of the amount to be paid for the purchase of additional Private Placement Units in the event the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option. The advance was due on demand should the over-allotment option not be exercised by the underwriters. On September 23, 2020, the $600,000 was returned to the Sponsor as the over-allotment option was not exercised. Promissory Note Related Party On June 30, 2020, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 to be used, in part, for transaction costs incurred in connection with the Initial Public Offering (the Promissory Note). The Promissory Note was non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of (i) December 31, 2020 and (ii) the completion of the Initial Public Offering. The outstanding balance under the Note of $126,005 was repaid at the closing of the Initial Public Offering on August 25, 2020. F-12 Table of Contents Related Party Loans In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). Such Working Capital Loans would be evidenced by promissory notes. The notes may be repaid upon completion of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of the notes may be converted upon completion of a Business Combination into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant. Such warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. NOTE 6. COMMITMENTS Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into on August 20, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans and upon conversion of the Founder Shares) are entitled to registration rights requiring the Company to register a sale of any of the securities held by them, including any other securities of the Company acquired by them prior to the consummation of the Companys initial Business Combination. The holders of these securities will be entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $7,000,000 in the aggregate. A portion of such amount not to exceed 40% of the total amount of deferred underwriting commissions held in the Trust Account may be paid at the sole discretion of the Company to parties who may or may not participate in the Initial Public Offering (but who are members of FINRA) that assist the Company in consummating a Business Combination. The election to make such payments to such parties will be solely at the discretion of the Companys management team. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Advisory and Consulting Agreements On December 4, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement with a service provider, pursuant to which the service provider will serve as the placement agent for the Company in connection with a proposed private placement (the Proposed Transaction) of the Companys equity or equity-linked securities (the Equity Securities). The Company agreed to pay the service provider a cash fee of equal to 50% of 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the total fair market of the Equity Securities sold in the Proposed Transaction subject to a minimum fee of $1,000,000 and reimbursable expenses not to exceed $50,000 without the Companys prior written consent. As of December 31, 2020, no amounts were incurred under this agreement. On December 4, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement with a service provider, pursuant to which the service provider will serve as media relations, due diligence, and transaction prep for the Company in connection with a proposed business combination. The Company agreed to pay the service provider a cash fee of (i) $15,000 per month until the consummation of a Business Combination, (ii) $200,000 payable only upon consummation of a Business Combination and (iii) a discretionary performance bonus in the amount of $200,000 upon the consummation of the Business Combination, at the sole discretion of the Company. As of December 31, 2020, the Company incurred $4,839 under this agreement, of which is included in accrued expenses in the accompanying balance sheet. On December 5, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement with a service provider, pursuant to which the service provider will serve as the co-placement agent for the Company in connection with a proposed private placement (the Transaction) of the Companys equity or equity-linked securities (the Securities). The Company agreed to pay the service provider a cash fee of $2,800,000, payable at the closing of the Business Combination and a cash fee equal to 50% of 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the total Securities sold in the Transaction subject to a minimum fee of $2,200,000. As of December 31, 2020, no amounts were incurred under this agreement. F-13 Table of Contents Merger Agreement On December 21, 2020, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), with Merger Sub and Ouster, relating to a proposed business combination transaction between the Company and Ouster. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Ouster, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub will cease and Ouster will be the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger) and will be renamed Ouster Inc. As a result of the Merger, among other things, all outstanding shares of capital stock of Ouster will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive, in the aggregate, a number of shares of Ouster PubCo common stock (as defined in the Merger Agreement) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) $1,500,000,000 by (y) $10.00. The Merger Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by the parties thereto and the closing is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. NOTE 7. SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Preference Shares The Company is authorized to issue 1,000,000 preference shares with a par value of $0.0001. The Companys board of directors will be authorized to fix the voting rights, if any, designations, powers, preferences, the relative, participating, optional or other special rights and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, applicable to the shares of each series. The board of directors will be able to, without shareholder approval, issue preference shares with voting and other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares and could have anti-takeover effects. At December 31, 2020, there were no preference shares issued or outstanding. Class A Ordinary Shares The Company is authorized to issue 200,000,000 Class A ordinary shares, with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for each share. At December 31, 2020, there were 1,333,219 Class A ordinary shares issued and outstanding, excluding 18,666,781 Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption. Class B Ordinary Shares The Company is authorized to issue 20,000,000 Class B ordinary shares, with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of the Class B ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for each share. At December 31, 2020, there were 5,000,000 Class B ordinary shares issued and outstanding. Only holders of the Class B ordinary shares will have the right to vote on the election of directors prior to the Business Combination. Holders of Class A ordinary shares and holders of Class B ordinary shares will vote together as a single class on all other matters submitted to a vote of the Companys shareholders except as otherwise required by law. The Class B ordinary shares will automatically convert into Class A ordinary shares concurrently with or immediately following the completion of a Business Combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment. In the case that additional Class A ordinary shares or equity-linked securities are issued or deemed issued in connection with a Business Combination, the number of Class A ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of all Founder Shares will equal, in the aggregate, 20% of the total number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding after such conversion (after giving effect to any redemptions of Class A ordinary shares by public shareholders), including the total number of Class A ordinary shares issued, or deemed issued or issuable upon conversion or exercise of any equity-linked securities or rights issued or deemed issued, by the Company in connection with or in relation to the consummation of a Business Combination, excluding any Class A ordinary shares or equity-linked securities exercisable for or convertible into Class A ordinary shares issued, or to be issued, to any seller in a Business Combination and any Private Placement Warrants issued to the Sponsor, officers or directors upon conversion of Working Capital Loans; provided that such conversion of Founder Shares will never occur on a less than one-for-one basis. Warrants Public Warrants may only be exercised for a whole number of shares. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the Units and only whole warrants will trade. The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of (a) 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination and (b) 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The Public Warrants will expire five years from the completion of a Business Combination, or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. F-14 Table of Contents The Company will not be obligated to deliver any Class A ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of a Public Warrant and will have no obligation to settle such Public Warrant exercise unless a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to the Class A ordinary shares underlying the warrants is then effective and a prospectus relating thereto is current, subject to the Company satisfying its obligations with respect to registration. No warrant will be exercisable and the Company will not be obligated to issue a Class A ordinary share upon exercise of a warrant unless the Class A ordinary share issuable upon such warrant exercise has been registered, qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the registered holder of the warrants. The Company has agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days after the closing of a Business Combination, it will use its best efforts to file with the SEC a registration statement for the registration, under the Securities Act, of the Class A ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The Company will use its best efforts to cause the same to become effective and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. If a registration statement covering the Class A ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not effective by the 60th business day after the closing of a Business Combination, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any period when the Company will have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act or another exemption. In addition, if the Class A ordinary shares are at the time of any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that they satisfy the definition of a covered security under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, the Company may, at its option, require holders of the Public Warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event the Company elects to do so, the Company will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but it will use its best efforts to register or qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available. Once the warrants become exercisable, the Company may redeem the outstanding Public Warrants: in whole and not in part; at a price of $0.01 per Public Warrant; upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder and if, and only if, the reported closing price of the ordinary shares equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for share splits, share capitalizations, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before the Company send to the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If and when the warrants become redeemable by the Company, the Company may exercise its redemption right even if it is unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. If the Company calls the Public Warrants for redemption, as described above, its management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise the Public Warrants to do so on a cashless basis, as described in the warrant agreement. The exercise price and number of ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances including in the event of a share dividend, extraordinary dividend or recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. However, except as described below, the Public Warrants will not be adjusted for issuances of ordinary shares at a price below its exercise price. Additionally, in no event will the Company be required to net cash settle the Public Warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of Public Warrants will not receive any of such funds with respect to their Public Warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Companys assets held outside of the Trust Account with respect to such Public Warrants. Accordingly, the Public Warrants may expire worthless. In addition, if (x) the Company issues additional Class A ordinary shares or equity-linked securities for capital raising purposes in connection with the closing of a Business Combination at an issue price or effective issue price of less than $9.20 per Class A ordinary share (with such issue price or effective issue price to be determined in good faith by the Companys board of directors and, in the case of any such issuance to the Sponsor or its affiliates, without taking into account any Founder Shares held by the Sponsor or such affiliates, as applicable, prior to such issuance) (the Newly Issued Price), (y) the aggregate gross proceeds from such issuances represent more than 60% of the total equity proceeds, and interest thereon, available for the funding of a Business Combination, and (z) the volume weighted average trading price of the Class A ordinary shares during the 20 trading day period starting on the trading day prior to the day on which the Company consummates a Business Combination (such price, the Market Value) is below $9.20 per share, then the exercise price of the warrants will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 115% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, and the $18.00 per share redemption trigger price will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 180% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price. F-15 Table of Contents The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering, except that (x) the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants will not be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions, (y) the Private Placement Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis and be non-redeemable so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees and (z) the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the Private Placement Warrants will be entitled to registration rights. If the Private Placement Warrants are held by someone other than the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by the Company and exercisable by such holders on the same basis as the Public Warrants. NOTE 8. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Company follows the guidance in ASC Topic 820 for its financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at each reporting period, and non-financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at least annually. The fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities reflects managements estimate of amounts that the Company would have received in connection with the sale of the assets or paid in connection with the transfer of the liabilities in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In connection with measuring the fair value of its assets and liabilities, the Company seeks to maximize the use of observable inputs (market data obtained from independent sources) and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs (internal assumptions about how market participants would price assets and liabilities). The following fair value hierarchy is used to classify assets and liabilities based on the observable inputs and unobservable inputs used in order to value the assets and liabilities: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market for an asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs. Examples of Level 2 inputs include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities and quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. Level 3: Unobservable inputs based on our assessment of the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. The following table presents information about the Companys assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2020, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation inputs the Company utilized to determine such fair value: Description Level December 31, 2020 Assets: Marketable securities held in Trust Account 1 $ 200,061,054 NOTE 9. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The Company evaluated subsequent events and transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date up to the date that the consolidated financial statements were issued. Based upon this review, the Company did not identify any subsequent events that would have required adjustment or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements. F-16 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 21, 2020, by and among Colonnade Acquisition Corp., Beam Merger Sub, Inc. and Ouster, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-251611), filed with the SEC on December 22, 2020). 3.1 Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 4.1 Specimen Unit Certificate (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-l (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 4.2 Specimen Ordinary Share Certificate (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-l (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 4.3 Specimen Warrant Certificate (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-l (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 4.4 Warrant Agreement between Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.1 Letter Agreement among Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and BTIG, LLC, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.2 Investment Management Trust Agreement between Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.3 Registration Rights Agreement among Colonnade Acquisition Corp., Colonnade Sponsor LLC and the holders signatory thereto, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.4 Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement between Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Colonnade Sponsor LLC, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.5 Administrative Services Agreement by and among Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Colonnade Sponsor LLC, dated as of August 20, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to the corresponding exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39463), filed with the SEC on August 25, 2020). 10.6 Form of Indemnity Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Companys Form S-1 Registration Statement (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 10.7 Promissory Note, dated as of June 30, 2020 by Colonnade Acquisition Corp. in favor of Colonnade Sponsor LLC, in the amount of $300,000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Companys Form S-1 Registration Statement (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 10.8 Securities Subscription Agreement by and among Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Colonnade Sponsor LLC, dated June 30, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Companys Form S-1 Registration Statement (File No. 333-240378), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020). 24.1 Power of Attorney (included on signature pages herein). 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. March 9, 2021 COLONNADE ACQUISITION CORP. By: /s/ Remy W. Trafelet Name: Remy W. Trafelet Title: Chief Executive Officer and Director POWER OF ATTORNEY The undersigned of Colonnade Acquisition Corp. hereby constitute and appoint each of Joseph S. Sambuco and Remy W. Trafelet, with the power to act without the others and with full power of substitution and resubstitution, our hue and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent with full power to execute in our name and behalf in the capacities indicated below any and all amendments to this report and to file the same, with all exhibits and other documents relating thereto and hereby ratify and confirm all that such attorney-in-fact, or such attorney-in-facts substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated below. Name Title Date /s/ Joseph S. Sambuco Chairman of the Board of Directors March 9, 2021 Joseph S. Sambuco /s/ Remy W. Trafelet Chief Executive Officer and Director March 9, 2021 Remy W. Trafelet (Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) /s/ James C. Flores Director March 9, 2021 James C. Flores /s/ Emil W. Henry, Jr. Director March 9, 2021 Emil W. Henry, Jr. /s/ Manny De Zrraga Director March 9, 2021 Manny De Zrraga EX-31.1 2 d126353dex311.htm EX-31.1 EX-31.1 Exhibit 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 I, Remy W. Trafelet, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 of Colonnade Acquisition Corp.; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure