Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of Ouster, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Ouster) should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in our unauditedcondensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K (2023 Annual Report) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 28, 2024. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors in Ousters 2023 Annual Report as may be updated from time to time in the Companys other filings with the SEC. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Ouster and the Company refer to the business and operations of Ouster, Inc. Overview We founded Ouster in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we have expanded and plan to continue to maintain and opportunistically expand our sales and marketing efforts and our software development capabilities, and to accelerate sensor development efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA. We are a leading global provider of autonomy solutions. We provide high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, which allows each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and enable safe operation and autonomy. We design and manufacture digital lidar sensors that we believe are one of the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure. We also provide perception software platforms for smart infrastructure deployments. Our software enables real-time people and object detection, classification, and tracking for actionable, intuitive, and customizable insights while preserving personally identifiable information. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. Our hardware product offering currently includes four models of sensors in our OS product line: the hemispheric field of view OSDome, the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our three models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. On October 19, 2022, we announced the launch of our newest OS series scanning sensors, REV7, powered by our next-generation L3 chip. REV7 features the all-new OSDome sensor, as well as upgraded OS0, OS1, and OS2 sensors that deliver double the range, enhanced object detection, increased precision and accuracy, and greater reliability. The new REV7 sensors offer performance upgrades that we believe will enhance Ousters market opportunity, driven by new opportunities for longer-range and mapping applications. We are currently developing our solid-state digital flash (DF) product line, which is a suite of short, mid, and long-range solid-state digital lidar sensors that provide uniform precision imaging without motion blur across an entire field of view. We also provide perception software platforms for smart infrastructure deployments. Our software enables real-time people and object detection, classification, and tracking for actionable, intuitive, and customizable insights while preserving personally identifiable information. For example, our Gemini perception software optimizes the high resolution and improved range of the Companys OS sensors to enhance detection, classification and tracking accuracy. Users can mesh multiple lidar sensors together within the Gemini software interface allowing a seamless 3D view of object movement throughout the space, with each sensor providing up to ten times more coverage than a camera-based system. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. 29 Table of Contents We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain and production yields. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software which minimizes changes to manufacturing or inventory. Our main manufacturing partners are Benchmark and Fabrinet, manufacturing the majority of our products at their facilities in Thailand, although some components in these products come from limited or single source suppliers. With the majority of our products being manufactured at the facilities in Thailand, we expect this will continue to reduce our product costs and allow us to continue to rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Based on cost quotes for our products in mass production, we anticipate our manufacturing costs per unit will decrease further with higher volumes. Merger with Velodyne Lidar, Inc. On November 4, 2022, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Velodyne Merger Agreement) with Velodyne Lidar, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Velodyne), Oban Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub I) and Oban Merger Sub II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and one of our direct, wholly owned subsidiaries (Velodyne Merger Sub II). On February 10, 2023, we completed our merger of equals with Velodyne pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Velodyne, Merger Sub I and Merger Sub II (the Velodyne Merger). In connection with the closing of the Velodyne Merger, we and Velodyne now operate as a single combined company. Our product offerings acquired through the Velodyne Merger includes three models of sensors. The Alpha Prime (VLS-128) is a lidar sensor designed for autonomous driving and advanced vehicle safety, offering a 300-meter range with 128 lasers and real-time 3D data at 0.1-degree vertical and horizontal resolution. Recognized at the Pace Automotive Award in 2019, it provides a superior combination of range, resolution, and precision for Level 4 and Level 5 autonomous vehicles in both highway and low-speed urban environments. The Puck (VLP-16) is designed for mass production and affordability, featuring 16 lasers, a 100-meter range, and a design with lower power consumption, lighter weight, and a compact footprint, making it suitable for low-speed autonomy and driver assistance. The Puck Hi-Res (VLP-16 Hi-Res) is an enhanced version of the original Puck, designed for applications requiring high image resolution, maintaining a 100-meter range and introducing a tighter laser distribution for more details in the 3D image at longer ranges, enabling better object identification. Factors Affecting Our Performance Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that lidar and system solutions, including our subscription-based software, are approaching an inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will continue to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. In May 2023, the Company announced that it had been awarded a serial production agreement with Motional, a global leader in driverless technology, to be Motionals exclusive supplier of long-range lidar using the VLS-128 lidar sensor through 2026, and we intend to seek to establish similar relationships with other customers. In 2024, our strategic business objectives include expanding software solutions, advancing the development of hardware, and progressing on the long-term financial framework. Accordingly, we expect to make progress towards growing our revenue and expanding gross margins. Nonetheless, our revenue and gross margins may not increase as we expect unless and until more customers commercialize their products and lidar technology becomes more prevalent across our target end markets. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested, validated, and achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to seven years based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets, including industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and sales, and select our products in their commercial production applications and that we avoid unexpected cancellations of major purchases of our products. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production and sales is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we aim to continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions 30 Table of Contents will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, end market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our end customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of the customers. In 2024, our strategic business objectives include growing our installed base of customers.We believe our sales volume by customer depends on the end market demand for our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions as well as our ability to increase our sales force productivity. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors shipped, the mix of existing and new productssold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on prices from signing anticipated large multi-year agreements in the near term with multi-year negotiated pricing. We expect that these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, notwithstanding any short-term price surcharges on our products, we expect that over time our volume-driven product costs will decrease. Competition. Lidar is an emerging market, and there are many competitors for the growing market. This has created downward pressure on our ASPs. We expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of our complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor digital lidar technology, we are well-positioned to scale more rapidly than our competitors and leverage our scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation.We believe that we are a leading lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position, which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully progressing our digital lidar roadmap and developing technologies that will enhance the operating performance of our products. For example, our next generation custom silicon chip for OS, L4, is taped out and we believe it will bring significant improvements in range, field of view, and manufacturability, along with safety certifications to the OS sensor family. We currently plan to integrate our next-generation custom silicon chip for DF, Chronos, into our solid-state digital flash sensors in the next year. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Supply Chain Continuity. Some of the key components in the products we have designed or are currently designing come from limited or single source suppliers. If these third parties experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or experience shortages in required components, or if they are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these components in required volumes or at all, our supply may be disrupted or be on less favorable terms. We may also be required to seek alternate manufacturers or for our products. It would be time-consuming, and could be costly and impracticable, to begin to use and qualify new manufacturers, components or designs, and such changes could cause significant interruptions in supply and could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries and may subsequently lead to the loss of sales. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate increasing demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multibillion-dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the future. We define our TAM as automation applications in the automotive, industrial, robotics, and smart infrastructure end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well-positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution lidar sensors. Although increasing adoption of semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology may generate higher demand, we may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of semi-autonomous solutions and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: Americas; Asia Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations and additional operational costs, risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenue and gross margins. 31 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services related to product development, validation, licenses, maintenance under our extended warranty contracts and shipping; however, we do not expect product development and validation and license and services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the foreseeable future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are innovators and early technology adopters incorporating our products into their solutions. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we believe we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their growth and demand rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business, we expect to continue to improve our own understanding of our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, amortization of intangible assets, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Subject to quarterly fluctuations and volatility, we expect unit costs to decline as we manufacture higher unit volumes of sensors and a greater portion of our sensors are produced by our contract manufacturers in Thailand. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco based headquarters and our additional R&D facilities in Scotland and Canada and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for industrial and autonomous vehicle safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware development and software development of lidar integration products; Custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, prototype expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs that support R&D activities. 32 Table of Contents R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expenses is expected to grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Sales and marketing expenses also include amortization expense of intangible assets related to customer relationships associated with the acquisitions and an allocated portion of facility and IT costs that support sales and marketing activities. Over the past few years, we have experienced additional sales and marketing expenses as a result of our global expansion, and expect sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resources, a portion of facility and IT costs that support general and administrative activities, as well as amortization of intangible assets, fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services, as well as insurance and bank fees. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expenses will grow over time; however, we expect the general and administrative spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. We have experienced and may in the near term experience additional increases in general and administrative expenses related to legal, accounting, finance and professional services costs associated with the Velodyne Merger, litigation activities, hiring more personnel and consultants to support our growing international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and other SEC rules and regulations as a result of being a public company. Goodwill impairment charges During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $99.4 million. These charges were primarily driven by the decrease in the Companys market capitalization during the period. Our goodwill impairment analysis includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting unit to our total market capitalization. There was no addition to goodwill as of March 31, 2024, and as such our remaining goodwill balance was nil. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. These amounts will vary based on our respective balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt, amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, realized gains and losses related to sales of our available-for-sale investments, the change in fair value of the private placement warrant liability. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. Federal and state deferred tax assets, excluding specific balances due to the Velodyne Merger. Income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, was not material to the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 25,944 $ 17,230 Cost of revenue(1) 18,519 17,606 Gross profit (loss) 7,425 (376) Operating expenses(1): Research and development 13,806 32,459 Sales and marketing 6,860 13,533 General and administrative 12,580 31,325 Goodwill impairment charges 99,409 Total operating expenses 33,246 176,726 Loss from operations (25,821) (177,102) Other income (expense): Interest income 2,651 1,719 Interest expense (741) (1,669) Other income, net 193 54 Total other income, net 2,103 104 Loss before income taxes (23,718) (176,998) Provision for income tax expense 131 282 Net loss $ (23,849) $ (177,280) 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (% of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 71 102 Gross profit (loss) 29 (2) Operating expenses (1): Research and development 53 188 Sales and marketing 26 79 General and administrative 48 182 Goodwill impairment charges 577 Total operating expenses 127 1026 Loss from operations (99) (1029) Other income (expense): Interest income 10 10 Interest expense (3) (10) Other income, net 1 Total other income, net 8 1 Loss before income taxes (91) (1028) Provision for income tax expense 1 2 Net loss (92) % (1030) % (1 )Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 913 $ 774 Research and development 4,188 7,505 Sales and marketing 1,400 2,881 General and administrative 2,903 10,620 Total stock-based compensation $ 9,404 $ 21,780 35 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic location: Americas $ 10,624 $ 9,904 $ 720 7 % Asia Pacific 6,149 2,669 3,480 130 Europe, Middle East and Africa 9,171 4,657 4,514 97 Total $ 25,944 $ 17,230 $ 8,714 51 % Revenue Revenue increased by $8.7 million, or 51%, to $25.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $17.2 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by the launch of the REV7 sensor and full quarter results from the Velodyne product lines. Geographic Locations Revenue increased across the geographic regions of Americas; Asia Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. The revenue increases in those geographic regions were primarily attributable to the higher sales levels from the launch of the REV7 sensor in certain geographies, the full quarter impact from the Velodyne Merger, which occurred on February 10, 2023 and our continued focus and investment in our global sales team. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 18,519 $ 17,606 $ 913 5 % Cost of revenue increased by $0.9 million, or 5%, to $18.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $17.6 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to increased revenues, partially offset primarily by lower inventory write downs and compensation expenses. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 13,806 $ 32,459 $ (18,653) (57) % Sales and marketing 6,860 13,533 (6,673) (49) General and administrative 12,580 31,325 (18,745) (60) Goodwill impairment charges 99,409 (99,409) * Total operating expenses $ 33,246 $ 176,726 $ (143,480) (81) % *Not meaningful Research and Development Research and development expenses decreased by $18.7 million, or 57%, to $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $32.5 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in headcount expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost cutting initiatives implemented in 2023. 36 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $6.7 million, or 49%, to $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $13.5 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in headcount expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost cutting initiatives implemented in 2023. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses decreased by $18.7 million, or 60%, to $12.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $31.3 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in headcount expenses and other costs from the restructuring and cost cutting initiatives implemented in 2023. Goodwill Impairment Charges There was no addition to goodwill as of March 31, 2024 from December 31, 2023, and as such our remaining goodwill balance was nil. Goodwill impairment charges were $99.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily driven by the decrease in the Companys market capitalization during the period. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 2,651 $ 1,719 $ 932 54 % Interest expense (741) (1,669) 928 (56) Other income, net 193 54 139 257 *Not meaningful The increase in interest income was primarily attributable to a higher average cash and cash equivalent balances driven by additions from the Velodyne Merger transaction and higher interest rates earned on held balances. The decrease in interest expense was related to term loan borrowings and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount under our Loan Agreement (as defined below) due to entering into the new UBS Agreement in October 2023, which had a lower interest rate. Other income, net was not material for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Income Taxes We were subject to income taxes in the United States, California, and miscellaneous foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Our income tax expense for three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was not material to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash generated from product revenues, sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program and proceeds from debt financing. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. As of March 31, 2024 we had an accumulated deficit of $839.9 million and cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments of approximately $189.5 million. Management believes that our existing sources of liquidity will be adequate to fund our operations for at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations. We manage our cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions that we believe have high credit quality and, at times, such amounts exceed federally insured limits. The failure of any bank with which we maintain a commercial relationship could cause us to lose our deposits in excess of the federally insured or protected amounts. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative 37 Table of Contents cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. Because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We may require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, current macroeconomic conditions, including elevated inflation rates and high interest rates, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. ATM Agreement On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (the ATM Agreement), pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at-the-market offering program. Subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, we may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us but we are under no obligation to sell any of the shares. Actual sales, if any, will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, capital needs and determinations by us of the appropriate sources of funding. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we sold 343,571 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $2.3 million under the ATM Agreement and during the three months ended March 31, 2023, we did not sell any stock under the ATM Agreement. The remaining availability under the ATM Agreement as of March 31, 2024 is approximately $114.4 million. We currently intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to the ATM Agreement for working capital and general corporate purposes. Debt Arrangements On April 29, 2022, we entered into the Loan Agreement with Hercules, which provided us with a term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, subject to terms and conditions (the Term Loan Facility). As of December 31, 2022, $40.0 million had been drawn under the Term Loan Facility, and could be used for general working capital purposes subject to certain terms and conditions. On October 25, 2023, the Company entered into the Credit Line Account Application and Agreement for Organizations and Businesses (the Credit Agreement) and the Addendum to Credit Line Account Application and Agreement (the Addendum; and the Credit Agreement as amended, modified, and/or supplemented by the Addendum, the UBS Agreement) by and among the Company, UBS Bank USA (the Bank), and UBS Financial Services Inc. The facility under the UBS Agreement matures and terminates on August 2, 2025 (the Maturity Date). The UBS Agreement provides us with a revolving credit line of up to $45.0 million, subject to certain terms and conditions. We initially borrowed $44.0 million, and all of the proceeds were used to prepay and terminate our Term Loan Facility with Hercules on October 25, 2023. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.6 million and recorded it as interest expense in its consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Pursuant to the terms of the UBS Agreement, we have agreed to maintain minimum liquidity, comprised of unencumbered cash and cash equivalents, U.S. treasuries and other assets acceptable to the Bank, of $52.0 million in an account maintained with the Bank or its affiliates at all times. The facility under the UBS Agreement is secured by our assets in securities accounts and any other accounts maintained with the Bank or its affiliates, and any supporting obligations, general intangibles and other rights ancillary or attributable to such assets, subject to customary exceptions. Loans under the UBS Agreement bear interest at a rate equal to (x) for variable rate loans, the sum of (i) the applicable SOFR average plus 0.110%, plus (ii) 1.20%, and (y) for fixed rate loans, the sum of either (1) CME Term Rate or (2) the U.S. Treasury Rate, as applicable and as defined in the UBS Agreement, as determined based on the duration of the advance, plus the applicable liquidity premium with a range of 0.15% to 0.50%, as set forth in the UBS Agreement. Interest payments are due (x) for variable rate loans, on the last day of each calendar month, and on each date that any portion of the principal amount is due, including on the Maturity Date, and (y) for fixed rate loans, on the last day of the applicable interest period, and on each date that any portion of the principal amount is due, including on the Maturity Date. We may repay any variable rate loans at any time in whole or in part, without penalty. We may repay any fixed rate loans in whole, but not in part, subject to certain breakage costs. We have agreed to pay an unused line fee in an amount equal to (i) the commitment amount of $45.0 million less the average daily balance of the sum of the principal amount of the obligations outstanding during the preceding calendar quarter, 38 Table of Contents multiplied by (ii) 0.50% per annum, and such unused line fee is payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each calendar quarter. The UBS Agreement also contains affirmative and negative covenants customary for a credit line of this type, including requirements for maintenance of the collateral accounts and certain limitations on withdrawal of cash from such collateral accounts. The UBS Agreement also provides for customary events of default, including, among others, non-payment, failure to maintain an amount equal to the greater of (x) the outstanding loans and (y) the collateral value as determined by the Bank, in the securities accounts maintained with the Bank, bankruptcy, or breach of a covenant, representation and warranty. For additional information regarding the terms of the UBS Agreement, see Note 6 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2024, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies and Part II, Item 7 of our 2023 Annual Report. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows from continuing operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (5,722) $ (53,012) Investing activities $ (469) $ 46,277 Financing activities $ 3,653 $ 18 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, operating activities used $5.7 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $23.8 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $12.4 million primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of $2.9 million, stock-based compensation of $9.4 million, change in right-of-use asset of $1.2 million and inventory write down of $0.7 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 million were primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $6.1 million, an increase in inventory of $1.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $2.6 million and an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $1.8 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, operating activities used $53.0 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $177.3 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $133.1 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $21.8 million, a $0.1 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, depreciation and amortization of $6.2 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $8.9 million were primarily due to an increase in inventories of $2.3 million, decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.7 million, an increase of accounts payable of $5.5 million and a decrease in accrued and other current liabilities of $2.3 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash used in investing activities was $0.5 million, which was related to purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by sales of short-term investments. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by investing activities was $46.3 million, which was attributed primarily to the Velodyne Merger and proceeds of short-term investments, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments and property, plant and equipment. 39 Table of Contents Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by financing activities was $3.7 million, consisting primarily of $3.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ATM Agreement. Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 except for the revision in our revenue policies and addition of investments as a significant accounting policy, both in connection with Velodyne Merger, which is described inNote 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Certain of these policies require the application of subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience, changes in the business environment and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different estimates that could have been applied in the current period or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely can result in a material impact on our financial condition and operating results in the current and future periods.