Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of the results of operations and financial condition of Ouster, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Ouster) should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 24, 2023. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors in Ousters Annual Report on Form 10-K dated and filed with the SEC on March 24, 2023, as may be updated from time to time in the Companys other filings with the SEC. On April 20, 2023, Ouster filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to effect a one-for-10 reverse stock split of Ousters common stock and a corresponding reduction in Ousters authorized shares of common stock (the Reverse Stock Split). The historical share and per share information included herein have been adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Ouster and the Company refer to the business and operations of Ouster, Inc. Overview We founded Ouster in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we have expanded and plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts and our software development capabilities, and to accelerate sensor development efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA. We are a leading global provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, which allows each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and ultimately enabling safe operation and autonomy. We design and manufacture digital lidar sensors that we believe are the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: industrial automation; smart infrastructure; robotics; and automotive. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. Our product offering today includes four models of sensors in our OS product line: the hemispherical view OSDome, the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our three models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. We are currently developing our solid-state DF product line, which is a suite of short, mid, and long-range solid-state digital lidar sensors that provide uniform precision imaging without motion blur across an entire field of view. In October 2022, we announced the launch of our newest OS series scanning sensors, REV7, powered by our next-generation L3 chip. REV7 features the all-new OSDome sensor, as well as upgraded OS0, OS1, and OS2 sensors that deliver double the range, enhanced object detection, increased precision and accuracy, and greater reliability. The new REV7 sensors offer performance upgrades that we believe will enhance Ousters market opportunity, driven by new opportunities for longer-range and mapping applications. In January 2023, we announced Ouster Gemini, a software platform for our sensors that provides privacy-safe object detection and tracking capabilities. The Ouster Gemini platform is designed for the smart infrastructure vertical, providing alerts and analytics on the movement of people and vehicles for the intelligent transportation systems (ITS), security, and retail analytics industries. Following the Velodyne Merger, we added three additional sensor products and a software solution to our portfolio. The VLP-16, VLP32, and VLS-128 lidar sensors expand the price and performance range of our offering, and have a sizeable existing install base. We intend to continue to sell these products when they present a fit for key customer requirements. Blue City is a software-based solution that includes lidar sensors, computing hardware and tailored software for the ITS market. The solution complements our Gemini platform and adds additional software capabilities, such as signal control and traffic analytics for our ITS customers. 32 Table of Contents We are successfully expanding our manufacturing capacity by outsourcing certain product lines to our manufacturing partner, Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and VLP and VLS products to Fabrinet. Both partners are manufacturing products at their facilities in Thailand, which we expect will reduce our product costs and allow us to rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Merger with Velodyne Lidar, Inc. On February 10, 2023, the Company completed the Velodyne Merger, which was accounted for as a business combination with the Company being an accounting acquiror. We believe that the combined company will enhance our suite of product offerings, grow our diverse customer base, increase operational efficiencies, improve our path to profitability, and strengthen our future financial position. For additional information regarding the terms of the Velodyne Merger, see Note 3, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Amazon Warrant Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), holds a warrant (Amazon Warrant) to acquire, following customary antidilution adjustments, up to an aggregate of 3,263,898 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of 50.71 per share. We assumed the Amazon Warrant as part of the Velodyne Merger. The fair value of the Amazon Warrant shares was estimated on February 10, 2023, the date of completion of the Velodyne Merger. The exercise price and the warrant shares issuable upon exercise of the Amazon Warrant are subject to further antidilution adjustments, including in the event we make certain sales of common stock (or securities exercisable or convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock) at a price less than the exercise price of the Amazon Warrant. The Amazon Warrant is subject to vesting; 50% of the unvested Amazon Warrant vested as a result of the Velodyne Merger and the remainder will vest over time based on payments by Amazon or its affiliates to us in connection with Amazons purchase of goods and services from us. Factors Affecting Our Performance Supply Chain Continuity. Beginning in 2021, a surge in demand for electronics containing semiconductor chips and stockpiling of chips by certain companies created disruptions in the supply chain, which continue to persist and have resulted in a global chip shortage impacting our industry. Some chip manufacturers continue to estimate that this supply shortage may continue through the end of 2023. These chip manufacturers are working to increase capacity in the future, and we are managing our inventory and working closely with our regular suppliers and customers to minimize the potential impacts of any supply shortages including by securing additional inventory. While we do not expect the shortage to have a material near-term impact on our ability to meet existing demand for our current products, the shortage adversely impacted our gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2022 and the three months ended March 31, 2023 and may continue to do so. These constraints have caused and may in the future cause us to implement certain temporary price surcharges. If our mitigating efforts are not successful or the shortage continues or worsens in ways we did not anticipate, our ability to supply or improve our current products as well as our development and rollout of future products could also be adversely affected. Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that lidar is approaching its inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects to commercialize semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will continue to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. In May 2023, the Company announced that it had been awarded a serial production agreement with Motional, a global leader in driverless technology, to be Motionals exclusive supplier of long-range lidar using the VLS-128 lidar sensor through 2026, and we intend to seek to establish similar relationships with other customers. Nonetheless, our revenue may not grow as we expect unless and until more customers commercialize their products and lidar technology becomes more prevalent across our target end markets. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested, validated, and achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary for these customers to reach commercial production varies from six months to seven years based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets, including industrial automation, smart infrastructure and robotics. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and sales and that they select our products in their commercial production applications. Because the timelines to reach 33 Table of Contents production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production and sales is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Customers Sales Volumes. Our customer base is diversified and we will continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, end market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our end customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of the customers. We believe our sales volume by customer depends on the end market demand for our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of sensors sold and the number and variety of solutions we provide to our customers. We expect that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect to continue to experience some downward pressure on margins from the impact of the Velodyne Merger and related integration activities including the transition of manufacturing of our products to Thailand and excess and obsolete charges. We expect that these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, notwithstanding any short-term price surcharges on our products, we expect that over time our volume-driven product costs will decrease. Competition. Lidar is an emerging market, and there are many competitors for the growing market. This has created downward pressure on our ASPs, particularly in the Asia and Pacific region. We expect this pressure to continue to push our ASPs lower in the coming years. However, we believe that because of our complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) digital lidar technology, we are well-positioned to scale more rapidly than our competitors and leverage our scale to deliver positive gross margins. Continued Investment and Innovation.We believe that we are a leading digital lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position, which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully realizing our product roadmap. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate robust demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multibillion-dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the near future. We define our TAM as automation applications in the industrial, smart infrastructure, robotics and automotive end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well-positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors. Although increasing adoption of semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology may generate higher demand, we may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our digital lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of semi-autonomous solutions and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: Americas; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations and additional operational costs, risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenue and gross margins. 34 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. We also recognize revenue by performing services related to product development, validation, maintenance under our extended warranty contracts and shipping; however, we do not expect product development and validation and license and services to be material components of revenue, cost of revenue or gross margin in the foreseeable future. Performance obligations related to services are generally recognized over time, based on cost-to-cost input basis or straight-line over time. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are innovators and early technology adopters incorporating our products into their solutions. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable long-term production schedules. However, we believe we are still at the very beginning of the lidar adoption curve, and some customers are still learning their ramp rates which can impact the timing of purchase orders quarter to quarter. As we grow our business, we expect to improve predictability into our customers needs and timelines, and expect the timing of orders will have a less notable impact on our quarterly results. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our digital lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, amortization of intangible assets, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Subject to quarterly fluctuations and volatility, we expect unit costs to decline as we manufacture higher unit volumes of sensors and a greater portion of our sensors are produced by our contract manufacturers in Thailand. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco based headquarters and our additional R&D facilities in Scotland, Canada and San Jose and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for industrial and autonomous vehicle safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware development and software development of lidar integration products; Custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, prototype expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocation of shared overhead costs including facilities, utilities and IT-related costs that support research and development activities. 35 Table of Contents R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expenses will grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Sales and marketing expenses also include amortization expense of intangible assets related to customer relationships associated with the acquisitions. We have experienced additional sales and marketing expenses as a result of our global expansion, and expect sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resources, an allocation of shared overhead costs including facilities, utilities and IT-related costs that support general and administrative activities, as well as amortization of intangible assets, fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services, as well as insurance and bank fees. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expenses will grow over time; however, we expect the general and administrative spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. We have experienced and may in the near term experience additional increases in general and administrative expenses related to legal, accounting, finance and professional services costs associated with the Velodyne Merger, litigation activities, hiring more personnel and consultants to support our growing international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and other SEC rules and regulations as a result of being a public company. Goodwill impairment charges As part of our interim goodwill impairment assessment during the three months ended March 31, 2023, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $99.4 million. These charges were primarily driven by the decrease on the Companys market capitalization during the period. Our goodwill impairment analysis includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting unit to our total market capitalization. If our stock trades below our book value, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization could result in additional material goodwill impairment charges in the future. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is used to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances. As of March 31, 2023, remaining goodwill balance was $67.3 million. Impairment charges, if any, resulting from the periodic testing are non-cash. No goodwill impairment charges were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income , Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances in interest bearing deposit accounts and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Other income , net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, realized gains and losses related to sales of our available-for-sale investments, the change in fair value of the private placement warrant liability. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Our income tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items arising in the quarter. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that some, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance, excluding specific balances due to the Velodyne Merger, against our net deferred tax assets. Income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, was not material to the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 17,230 $ 8,558 Cost of revenue(1) 17,606 5,967 Gross profit (376) 2,591 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 32,459 15,906 Sales and marketing 13,533 7,090 General and administrative 31,325 13,783 Goodwill impairment charges 99,409 Total operating expenses 176,726 36,779 Loss from operations (177,102) (34,188) Other (expense) income: Interest income 1,719 154 Interest expense (1,669) Other income, net 54 1,684 Total other income, net 104 1,838 Loss before income taxes (176,998) (32,350) Provision for income tax expense 282 47 Net loss $ (177,280) $ (32,397) 37 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (% of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 102 70 Gross profit (2) 30 Operating expenses (1): Research and development 188 186 Sales and marketing 79 83 General and administrative 182 161 Goodwill impairment charges 577 0 Total operating expenses 1026 430 Loss from operations (1029) (400) Other (expense) income: Interest income 10 2 Interest expense (10) Other income, net 0 20 Total other expense, net 1 22 Loss before income taxes (1028) (378) Provision for income tax expense 2 1 Net loss (1030) % (379) % (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 774 $ 217 Research and development 7,505 3,761 Sales and marketing 2,881 1,524 General and administrative 10,620 3,248 Total stock-based compensation $ 21,780 $ 8,750 38 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue by geographic location: Americas $ 9,904 $ 3,319 $ 6,585 198 % Asia and Pacific 2,669 2,356 313 13 Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,657 2,883 1,774 62 Total $ 17,230 $ 8,558 $ 8,672 101 % Revenue Revenue increased by $8.7 million, or 101%, to $17.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $8.6 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in revenue was driven by the increase in volume that was largely due to the Velodyne Merger. In addition, the Company launched the REV7 sensors and realized higher sensor revenues in 2023. Geographic Locations Revenue increased across the geographic regions of Americas; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa as compared to the comparable period in the prior year. The revenue increases in those geographic regions were primarily attributable to the Velodyne Merger and our continued focus and investment in our global sales team and an expansion in the demand of our sensors during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 17,606 $ 5,967 $ 11,639 195 % Cost of revenue increased by $11.6 million, or 195%, to $17.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $6.0 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to the Velodyne Merger, which increased revenues and costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 32,459 $ 15,906 $ 16,553 104 % Sales and marketing 13,533 7,090 6,443 91 General and administrative 31,325 13,783 17,542 127 Goodwill impairment charges 99,409 99,409 * Total operating expenses: $ 176,726 $ 36,779 $ 139,947 381 % *Not meaningful Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $16.6 million, or 104%, to $32.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $15.9 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the Velodyne Merger, which increased the headcount expenses and other costs. 39 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $6.4 million, or 91%, to $13.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $7.1 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the Velodyne Merger, which increased the headcount expenses and other costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $17.5 million, or 127%, to $31.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 from $13.8 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the Velodyne Merger, which increased the headcount expenses and other costs. Goodwill Impairment Charges Goodwill impairment charges were $99.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 for the reasons described above under Goodwill impairment charges. There were no goodwill impairment charges during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2023 2022 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1,719 $ 154 $ 1,565 1016 % Interest expense (1,669) (1,669) * Other income, net 54 1,684 (1,630) (97) *Not meaningful The increase in interest income was primarily attributable to a higher average cash and cash equivalent balances driven by additions through the Velodyne Merger transaction. Interest expense was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and related to term loan borrowings and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount under our Loan Agreement (as defined below). There was no interest expense during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as we did not have outstanding debt in that period. Other income, net was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $1.7 million for the comparable period in the prior year. We recorded a gain of $0.1 million and $1.7 million for the fair value change of the private placement warrant liability during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Income Taxes We were subject to income taxes in the United States, California, and miscellaneous foreign jurisdictions for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Our income tax expense for three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments funded through the Velodyne Merger, cash generated from revenues, sales of common stock under our at-the market equity offering program and proceeds from our Loan Agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc. On April 29, 2022, we entered into an open market sale agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. (the ATM Agreement), pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $150.0 million under an at-the-market equity offering program. Subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, we may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us but we are under no obligation to sell any of the shares. Actual sales, if any, will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us from time to time, including, among other things, market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, capital needs and determinations by us of the appropriate sources of funding. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we did not sell any stock under the ATM Agreement. The remaining availability under the ATM Agreement as of March 31, 2023 is approximately $133.2 million. We previously suspended the ATM Agreement; however we no longer consider the program to be suspended 40 Table of Contents and may elect to make sales under the ATM Agreement in the future. We currently intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to the ATM Agreement for working capital and general corporate purposes. For a description of our Loan Agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc., see Note 6, Debt to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2023, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. For information regarding our other contractual obligations, refer to Note 8 , Commitments and Contingencies and Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on March 24, 2023. As of March 31, 2023, the Companys existing sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $256.7 million. The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations for several years. If the Company continues to incur losses in the future, it may need to improve liquidity and raise additional capital through the issuance of equity, including under the ATM Agreement, and/or debt. This is subject, to a certain extent, to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control and there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to raise such capital. Nevertheless, management believes that the Companys existing sources of liquidity will be adequate to fund its operations for at least twelve months from the date the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report were available for issuance. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows from continuing operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (53,012) $ (21,827) Investing activities $ 46,277 $ (141) Financing activities $ 18 $ 119 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, operating activities used $53.0 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $177.3 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $133.1 million primarily consisting of goodwill impairment charges of $99.4 million, depreciation and amortization of $6.2 million, loss on write-off of construction in progress and right-of-use asset impairment of $1.4 million, stock-based compensation of $21.8 million, change in right-of-use asset of $1.1 million and inventory write down of $2.8 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $8.9 million were primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $3.5 million, increase in inventory of $2.3 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $5.5 million and an increase in accrued and other liabilities of $9.2 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, operating activities used $21.8 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $32.4 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $10.1 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $8.8 million, a $1.7 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, depreciation and amortization of $2.4 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million were primarily due to an increase in inventories of $4.4 million, decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.5 million, an increase of accounts payable of $4.8 million and a decrease in accrued and other current liabilities of $2.3 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash from investing activities was $46.3 million, which was attributed primarily to the Velodyne Merger and proceeds from sales of short-term investments. 41 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million, which was related to purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by sales of property and equipment. Financing Activities Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 except for the revision in our revenue policies and addition of investments as a significant accounting policy, both in connection with Velodyne Merger, which is described inNote 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Certain of these policies require the application of subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience, changes in the business environment and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different estimates that could have been applied in the current period or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely can result in a material impact on our financial condition and operating results in the current and future periods.