Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of the results of operations and financial condition of Ouster, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Ouster) should be read in conjunction with the information set forth in Ousters condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, as well as Ousters audited consolidated financial statements and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations filed as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively, to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2021 (the Super 8-K). This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Ousters actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors in the final prospectus and definitive proxy statement, dated February 12, 2021 (the Proxy Statement/Prospectus), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), as updated by the factors disclosed in the section titled Risk Factors in our Super 8-K and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. On December 21, 2020, Ouster Technologies, Inc. (OTI, prior to the Merger, named Ouster, Inc.) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Colonnade Acquisition Corp., a Cayman Islands exempted company (CLA), and Beam Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub), a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of CLA. OTIs and CLAs board of directors unanimously approved OTIs entry into the Merger Agreement, and on March 11, 2021, the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement were consummated (all such transactions, the Merger), as further described below. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our and the Company refer to the business and operations of OTI (formerly known as Ouster, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Merger and to Ouster, Inc. (formerly known as Colonnade Acquisition Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Merger. Overview We are a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors that offer advanced 3D vision to machinery, vehicles, robots, and fixed infrastructure assets, allowing each to understand and visualize the surrounding world and ultimately enabling safe operation and ubiquitous autonomy. We design and manufacture digital lidar sensors that we believe are the highest-performing, lowest-cost lidar solutions available today across each of our four target markets: industrial automation; smart infrastructure; robotics; and automotive. We have won and are actively negotiating a number of additional, multi-year sales contracts. We shipped sensors to over 500 customers in the twelve months ended March 31, 2021. Our digital lidar sensors leverage a simplified architecture based on two semiconductor chips and are backed by a suite of patent-protected technology. We have invested heavily in patents since our inception, pursuing comprehensive coverage of invention families and use cases, with broad international coverage. We believe that our extensive patent coverage creates material barriers to entry for anyone aiming to compete in the digital lidar space. Our product offering today includes three models of sensors in our OS product line: the ultra-wide field of view OS0, the mid-range OS1, and the long-range OS2. In January 2020 we released new models in our OS product line, increasing the resolution of our OS1 model and introducing the OS0 and OS2 models. Within our OS sensor models, we offer numerous customization options, all enabled by embedded software. For each of our three models in the OS product line, we offer resolution options of 128 lines vertically (channels), 64 channels, or 32 channels, as well as many beam spacing options. We are currently developing our solid-state ES product line, which, when released, will consist of the long-range ES2 sensor. We believe the simplicity of our digital lidar design gives us a meaningful advantage in costs related to manufacturing, supply chain and production yields. The same digital lidar architecture underpins our entire product portfolio which we believe drives economies of scale in our supply chains and speeds time to market. With virtually unlimited software-defined products driving low-cost customization, we are able to increase stock keeping units (SKUs) for industry-specific applications, expanding our product offering with minimal manufacturing or inventory changes. We currently have over 75 different software-defined product SKUs, all based on this common architecture and shared core componentry. Additionally, we are successfully expanding our manufacturing capacity by outsourcing to our manufacturing partner, Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (Benchmark). Benchmark manufactures our products at its facility in Thailand, which we expect will reduce our product costs and allow us to rapidly scale production to meet our anticipated product demand. Based on cost quotes for our products in mass production, we believe our manufacturing costs to be lower than certain of our competitors, and we expect our manufacturing costs per unit to decrease further with higher volumes. We founded Ouster in 2015 with the invention of our high-performance digital lidar. Since then, we have grown to over 135 employees serving over 500 customers globally. To continue to grow our business in the coming years, we plan to expand 29 Table of Contents our sales and marketing efforts, expand our software development capabilities and accelerate sensor development efforts. We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA and have operated as a standalone, independent entity since our founding. Merger Agreement with Colonnade Acquisition Corp. and Beam Merger Sub, Inc. On December 21, 2020, OTI entered into the Merger Agreement with CLA, and Merger Sub, a subsidiary of CLA. OTIs and CLAs board of directors unanimously approved OTIs entry into the Merger Agreement, and on March 11, 2021, the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement were consummated. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, (i) CLA domesticated as a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Domestication) and changed its name to Ouster, Inc. (with CLA after such domestication and the other transactions pursuant to the Merger Agreement being referred to as the Company) and (ii) Merger Sub merged with and into OTI (the Merger), with OTI surviving the Merger. As a result of and upon the effective time of the Domestication, among other things, (1) each of the then issued and outstanding 5,000,000 CLA Class B ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of CLA (the CLA Class B ordinary shares) converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a CLA Class A ordinary share (as defined below), (2) immediately following the conversion described in clause (1), each of the then issued and outstanding 25,000,000 Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of CLA (the CLA Class A ordinary shares), converted automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Ouster (the Ouster common stock), (3) each of the then issued and outstanding 10,000,000 redeemable warrants of CLA (the CLA warrants) converted automatically into a redeemable warrant to purchase one share of Ouster common stock (the Public warrants) pursuant to the Warrant Agreement, dated August 20, 2020 (the Warrant Agreement), between CLA and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company (Continental), as warrant agent, and (4) each of the then issued and outstanding units of CLA that had not been previously separated into the underlying CLA Class A ordinary shares and underlying CLA warrants upon the request of the holder thereof (the CLA units), were cancelled and entitled the holder thereof to one share of Ouster common stock and one-half of one Public warrant, and (5) each of the then issued and outstanding 6,000,000 private placement warrants of CLA (the Private Placement warrants) converted automatically into a Public warrant pursuant to the Warrant Agreement. No fractional Public warrants were issued upon separation of the CLA units. Immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, (1) each share of OTIs Series B Preferred Stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the OTI Preferred Stock), converted into one share of common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, of OTI (the OTI common stock and, together with OTI Preferred Stock, the OTI Capital Stock) (such conversion, the OTI Preferred Conversion) and (2) all of the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of OTI Capital Stock were exercised in full or terminated in accordance with their respective terms (the OTI Warrant Settlement). As a result of and upon the closing of the Merger, among other things, all shares of OTI Capital Stock (after giving effect to the OTI Warrant Settlement) outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger together with shares of OTI common stock reserved in respect of options to purchase shares of OTI common stock and restricted shares of OTI common stock (together, the OTI Awards) outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the Merger that were converted into awards based on Ouster common stock, were cancelled in exchange for the right to receive, or the reservation of, an aggregate of 150,000,000 shares of Ouster common stock (at a deemed value of $10.00 per share), which, in the case of OTI Awards, were shares underlying awards based on Ouster common stock, representing a fully-diluted pre-transaction. Upon the closing of the Merger, the Company received gross proceeds of $299.9 million from the Merger and private offering, offset by $8.5 million of pre-merger costs relating to CLA and offering costs of $26.6 million. COVID-19 Impact Throughout 2020 and the three months ended March 31, 2021, the worldwide spread of the pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and the measures intended to contain the spread of COVID-19 have resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity and caused disruptions to our business. In particular, our headquarters are based in the San Francisco Bay Area, which has been subject to ongoing government measures and orders such as quarantines and social distancing. During the second and third quarters of 2020 we slowed our operating and capital spending with the expectation that our revenue and ability to raise capital would be impacted by the global pandemic. We believe that our overall growth rate during 2020 and the quarter ended March 31, 2021 was negatively impacted by the pandemic, though, despite this impact, we were able to continue to grow our sales during 2020 compared to 2019 and the quarter ended March 31, 2021 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2020, and estimate that in the long-term the pandemic will act as a catalyst for wider adoption of automation and lidar technology. As a San Francisco Bay Area based company, we were affected by the shelter in place order in the first and second quarter of 2020. While the majority of our employees were able to work remotely, some employees, especially manufacturing 30 Table of Contents employees, were not able to work from home. The shelter in place order delayed order fulfillment and revenue recognition during the first and second quarters of 2020. We continued to pay employees during the shelter in place order whether or not they were able to work. Manufacturing and order fulfillment employees were able to return to work in the second quarter of 2020; however, the number of employees allowed on premises at one time was greatly reduced as a result of the California reduced capacity mandates, which also affected our ability to fulfill orders and recognize revenue. Some essential employees were paid hazard pay, and the hazard pay combined with underutilized employee pay increased our employee overhead and decreased gross margins in the first and second quarter of 2020. Employees continue to work in a reduced capacity at our San Francisco facility, but we have moved a large portion of our manufacturing to our contract manufacturer in Thailand, which resulted in increased sales activities during the second half of 2020 and the quarter ended March 31, 2021 compared to the first half of 2020. Our suppliers are located worldwide, and the suppliers in the Asia and Pacific geographical region were especially affected by the pandemic in the first quarter of 2020. Some of our key suppliers were affected by the pandemic resulting in supply chain disruptions. These issues further delayed order fulfillment and revenue recognition, but were largely resolved in the third quarter of 2020. While we experienced quarter-over-quarter increases in revenue in 2020, some customers have delayed orders and production schedules due to COVID-19. The pandemic continues to evolve, and the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, including sales, expenses, reserves and allowances, manufacturing, research and development costs and personnel-related costs, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain, including as a result of new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19 and the actions taken to contain, prevent or treat COVID-19, any resurgence of the pandemic in areas where we, Benchmark or our suppliers operate, and the economic impact on local, regional, national and international customers and markets. Factors Affecting Our Performance Supply Chain Continuity. A recent surge in demand for electronics containing semiconductor chips and stockpiling of chips by certain companies has created disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in a global chip shortage impacting our industry. Some chip manufacturers are estimating this supply shortage may continue into 2022. These chip manufacturers are working to increase capacity in the future, and we are managing our inventory and working closely with our regular suppliers and customers to minimize the potential impacts of any supply shortages including by securing additional inventory. Accordingly, we do not expect the shortage to have a material near-term impact on our ability to meet existing or increased demand for our current products; however, if our mitigating efforts are not successful or the shortage continues or worsens in ways we did not anticipate, it could affect our ability to supply or improve our current products as well as our development and rollout of future products. Commercialization of Lidar Applications. We believe that lidar is approaching its inflection point of adoption across our target end market applications, and that we are well-positioned to capitalize on this market adoption. However, as our customers continue research and development projects to commercialize semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology, it is difficult to estimate the timing of ultimate end market and customer adoption. As a result, we expect that our results of operations, including revenue and gross margins, will fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. As the market for lidar solutions matures and more customers reach a commercialization phase with solutions that rely on our technology, the fluctuations in our operating results may become less pronounced. Nonetheless, our revenue may not grow as we expect unless and until more customers commercialize their products and lidar technology becomes more prevalent across our target end markets. In addition to end market demand, sales volume further depends on our customers progression through their evaluation, integration and production processes. Number of Customers in Production. For certain strategic customers and markets, our products must be integrated into a broader platform, which then must be tested, validated, and achieve system-level performance and reliability thresholds that enable commercial production and sales. The time necessary to reach commercial production varies from six months to seven years, based on the market and application. For example, the production cycle in the automotive market tends to be substantially longer than in our other target markets, including industrial automation, smart infrastructure and robotics. It is critical to our future success in each of our target end markets that our customers reach commercial production and sales and that they select our products in their commercial production applications. Because the timelines to reach production vary significantly and the revenue generated by each customer in connection with commercial production and sales is unpredictable, it is difficult for us to reliably predict our financial performance. Sales Volume. Our customer base is diversified and we will continue to penetrate into diverse end markets to increase our sales volumes. Ultimately widespread adoption of our customers products that incorporate our lidar solutions will depend on 31 Table of Contents many factors, including the size of our customers end markets, end market penetration of our customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions, our end customers ability to sell their products, and the financial stability and reputation of the customers. We believe our sales volume by customer depends on the end market demand for such customers products that incorporate our digital lidar solutions as well as our ability to grow our sales force. Average Selling Prices (ASPs), Product Costs and Margins. Our product costs and gross margins depend largely on the volumes of the solutions we provide to our customers. Our ability to compete in our target markets depends on the success of our digital lidar solutions and the ultimate volume of our sensors sold. We anticipate that our selling prices will vary by target end market and application due to market-specific supply and demand dynamics. We expect these customer-specific selling price fluctuations combined with our volume-driven product costs may drive fluctuations in revenue and gross margins on a quarterly basis. However, we expect that our volume-driven product costs will lead to gross margin improvement as our sales volume increases over time. Continued Investment and Innovation . We believe that we are the leading digital lidar provider. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position which is further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. We believe it is essential that we continue to identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, including successfully realizing our product roadmap. If we fail to continue our innovation, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in that area will not be recovered. Market Trends and Uncertainties. We anticipate robust demand for our digital lidar solution. We estimate a multibillion dollar total addressable market (TAM) for our solutions in the near future. We define our TAM as automation applications in the industrial, smart infrastructure, robotics and automotive end markets where we actively engage and maintain customer relationships. Each of our target markets is potentially a significant global opportunity, and these markets have historically been underserved by limited or inferior technology or not served at all. We believe we are well positioned in our market as a leading provider of high-resolution digital lidar sensors. Although increasing adoption of semi-autonomous solutions that rely on lidar technology may generate higher demand, we may not be able to take advantage of demand if we are unable to anticipate regulatory changes and adapt quickly enough to meet such new regulatory standards or requirements applicable to us or to our customers products in which our digital lidar sensors are used. Market acceptance of semi-autonomous solutions and active safety technology depend upon many factors, including cost, performance, safety performance, regulatory requirements and international taxes or tariffs related to such technologies. These factors may impact the ultimate market acceptance of our lidar technology. International Expansion. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that we expect to serve as important sources of future growth. We have an existing presence in three regions: North and South America; Asia and Pacific; and Europe, Middle East and Africa. We intend to expand our presence in these regions over time including through distribution partnerships. Expanded global reach will require continued investment and may expose us to additional foreign currency risk, international taxes and tariffs, legal obligations and additional operational costs, risks and challenges that may impact our ability to meet our projected sales volumes, revenue and gross margins. Components of Results of Operations Revenue The majority of our revenue comes from the sale of our digital lidar sensors and accessories both directly to end users and through distributors both domestically and internationally. We recognize revenue from product sales when the performance obligation of transferring control of the product to the customer has been met, generally when the product is shipped. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost of shipping activities that occur after control has transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost rather than a separate performance obligation. All related costs are accrued and recognized within cost of revenue when the related revenue is recognized. Most of our customers are currently in the evaluation or early R&D stage with our products. Currently, our product revenue consists of both customers ordering small volumes of our products that are in an evaluation phase and customers that order larger volumes of our products and have more predictable production schedules. Over the coming years, as more of our customers move into their respective production phases, we expect the majority of our product revenue to shift to larger volume orders based on predictable production schedules. We also expect more of our revenue to come from international customers, with our sales from regions outside of North and South America expected to grow long-term to approximately two-thirds of our total revenue. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of the manufacturing cost of our digital lidar sensors, which primarily consists of sensor components, personnel-related costs directly associated with our manufacturing organization, and amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturer and vendors. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation of manufacturing equipment, an allocated portion of overhead, facility and IT costs, stock-based compensation for manufacturing personnel, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, excess and obsolete inventory and shipping costs. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Our gross profit equals total revenues less our total cost of revenues, and our gross margin is our gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. We experienced negative gross margins from the fourth quarter of 2018 until we turned gross margin positive during 2020 primarily due to increased unit volumes which improved our ability to absorb fixed costs and lowered material costs by increasing our buying power and a shift to outsourced mass production of our sensors to Benchmark, who has leverage for greater volume discounts and lower overhead costs. Subject to quarterly fluctuations and volatility, we expect actual costs to improve as we manufacture higher unit volumes of sensors and a greater portion of our sensors are produced by our contract manufacturer in Thailand. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development (R&D) activities are primarily conducted at our San Francisco based headquarters and consist of the following activities: Design, prototyping, and testing of proprietary electrical, optical, and mechanical subsystems for our digital lidar products; Robust testing for industrial and autonomous vehicle safety certifications; Development of new products and enhancements to existing products in response to customer requirements including firmware development and software development of lidar integration products; Custom system-on-a-chip (SoC) design for Ousters digital lidar products; and Development of custom manufacturing equipment. R&D expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in R&D activities, third-party engineering and contractor costs, and prototype expenses. R&D costs are expensed as they are incurred. Our investment in R&D will continue to grow as we invest in new lidar technology and related software. Our absolute amount of R&D expense will grow over time; however, we expect R&D as a percentage of revenue to decrease annually as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our business development, customer support and marketing teams are located in offices worldwide. Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for all personnel directly involved in business development, customer support, and marketing activities, and marketing expenses including trade shows, advertising, and demonstration equipment. Our investment in sales and marketing will continue to grow as we continue to expand our sales team globally, and our absolute amount of sales and marketing expenses will grow over time. We expect sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation, of our executives and members of the board of directors, finance, human resource, IT, and legal departments as well as fees related to legal fees, patent prosecution, accounting, finance and professional services as well as insurance, and bank fees. Our absolute amount of general and administrative expense will grow over time; however, we expect the general and administrative spend as a percentage of revenue to decrease annually as our business grows. Near term increases in general and administrative expenses are expected to be related to hiring more personnel and consultants to support our growing 33 Table of Contents international expansion and compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and other U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations as a result of becoming a public company following the Merger. Stock-Based Compensation We measure and recognize stock-based compensation expense for stock-based awards over the requisite service periods based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. These amounts will vary based on our cash and cash equivalents balances and market rates. Interest expense consists primarily of interest on our debt and convertible notes and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and balances, the change in fair value of financial instruments, including warrants issued in connection with a debt agreement, and Private Placement warrants acquired as part of the Merger. Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of federal, state and foreign current and deferred income taxes. Due to tax losses and the offsetting valuation allowance, our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was not material to the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations: The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (dollars in thousands) Product revenue $ 6,611 $ 2,300 Cost of product revenue (1) 4,868 4,216 Gross profit (loss) 1,743 (1,916) Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 4,712 4,474 Sales and marketing 3,426 2,226 General and administrative 9,907 3,666 Total operating expenses 18,045 10,366 Loss from operations (16,302) (12,282) Other (expense) income: Interest income 1 22 Interest expense (504) (1,277) Other income (expense), net (4,152) (5,156) Total other expense, net (4,655) (6,411) Loss before income taxes (20,957) (18,693) Provision for income tax expense Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (20,957) $ (18,693) 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss data as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (% of total revenue) Product revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of product revenue (1) 74 183 Gross profit (loss) 26 (83) Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 71 195 Sales and marketing 52 97 General and administrative 150 159 Total operating expenses 273 451 Loss from operations (247) (534) Other (expense) income: Interest income 1 Interest expense (8) (56) Other income (expense), net (63) (224) Total other expense, net (71) (279) Loss before income taxes (318) (813) Provision for income tax expense Net loss and comprehensive loss (318) % (813) % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 in cost of revenue, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses of $0.12 million, $0.92 million, $0.27 million and $3.95 million, respectively, and $0.04 million, $0.14 million, $0.05 million and $(0.05) million, respectively, for the same period in the prior year. Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2021 2020 $ % (dollars in thousands) Product revenue $ 6,611 $ 2,300 $ 4,311 187 % Revenue by geographic location: United States $ 1,858 $ 1,274 $ 584 46 % Americas, excluding United States 366 71 295 415 Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,254 374 880 235 Asia and Pacific 3,133 581 2,552 439 Total $ 6,611 $ 2,300 $ 4,311 187 % Product Revenue Product revenue increased by $4.3 million, or 187%, to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from $2.3 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in product revenue was driven by an increase in volume of 240%, which we attribute primarily to the expansion of our sales team into new geographic regions and the increase of high volume, long-term deals as some of our customers begin to move into a production stage with their autonomous products. Our average selling price declined by 15% as we moved towards negotiated customer pricing with customers reaching the production stage with their autonomous products and we expect reductions in the cost of goods sold as we grow our volumes. 35 Table of Contents Geographic Locations Revenue increased across the geographic regions of the United States; the Americas excluding United States; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and Asia and Pacific by $0.6 million, $0.3 million, $0.9 million, and $2.6 million, respectively. The revenue increases in the geographic regions of Asia and Pacific and Europe, the Middle East and Africa were a result of recent sales expansion in those regions. We opened sales offices in these regions in late 2019 and have since focused our sales resources on expanding globally. Cost of Product Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2021 2020 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 4,868 $ 4,216 $ 652 15 % Gross margin 26 % (83) % Cost of Product Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of product revenue increased by $0.7 million, or 15%, to $4.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from $4.2 million for the comparable period in the prior year and cost per unit decreased by 66%. The increase in cost of product revenue was primarily due to increases of $1.0 million in material costs and $0.5 million in manufacturing overhead costs. The increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.7 million in other product costs due to lower allowances for excess and obsolete inventory and $0.1 million decrease in freight. Gross margin increased from (83)% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The improvement in product gross margin is due to the 66% decrease in cost per unit slightly offset by the 15% decrease in average selling price. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2021 2020 $ % (dollars in thousands) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 4,712 $ 4,474 $ 238 5 % Sales and marketing 3,426 2,226 1,200 54 General and administrative 9,907 3,666 6,241 170 Total operating expenses: $ 18,045 $ 10,366 $ 7,679 74 % Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $0.2 million, or 5%, to $4.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from $4.5 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $0.2 million increase in depreciation expense which was partially offset by a $0.4 million reduction in contractor, prototype, and equipment costs related to product development and $0.4 million decrease in personnel-related costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 54%, to $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from $2.2 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $0.8 million in payroll and personnel-related costs driven by the addition of sales personnel in all our global regions, of which 36 Table of Contents $0.2 million was stock-based compensation related, as well as $0.4 million for additional branding and public relations expenses related to the Merger. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $6.2 million, or 170%, to $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from $3.7 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $4.0 million of stock-based compensation, an increase of $1.3 million in legal, accounting and professional services fees relating to the Merger, an increase of $0.4 million in insurance premiums, an increase of $0.3 million of recruiting expenses relating to executive search and hiring, and an increase of $0.2 million in facilities related expenses. Interest Income, Interest Expense and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change Change 2021 2020 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1 $ 22 $ (21) (95) % Interest expense (504) (1,277) 773 (61) Other income (expense), net (4,152) (5,156) 1,004 (19) Interest income was $0.001 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $0.022 million for the comparable period in the prior year. This decrease in interest income was primarily related to a decrease in our cash and cash equivalent balances before the Merger closed on March 11, 2021 towards the end of the three months ended March 31, 2021. Interest expense was $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $1.3 million for the comparable period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to the conversion of convertible notes in the second quarter of 2020 and the repayment of bank debt in the third quarter of 2020 and the three months ended March 31, 2021, partially offset by $0.1 million of interest expense on promissory notes to certain investors (or their affiliates). Other income (expense), net was $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $5.2 million for the comparable period in the prior year. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded a loss of $8.8 million for the fair value change of redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability, partially offset by a gain of $4.7 million for the fair value change of Private Placement warrant liability which was recorded as other income. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded a loss of $5.3 million for the fair value change of derivative liability related to our convertible notes. Income Taxes We were subject to income taxes in the United States, Hong Kong, Thailand and China for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Our income tax expense for three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was not material to the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we develop and grow our business. Prior to the Merger, we primarily funded our operations from the net proceeds from sales of our preferred convertible stock and convertible notes, borrowing under our loan and security agreement with Runway Growth Credit Fund, Inc. and product revenue. Subsequent to the Merger, our principal sources of liquidity have been and are expected to be our cash and cash equivalents and product revenues. As of the three months ended March 31, 2021 we had an accumulated deficit of $230.3 million and cash and cash equivalents of $257.2 million. We have experienced recurring losses from operations, and negative cash flows from operations, and we expect to continue operating at a loss and to have negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with cash we expect to generate from future operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. However, because we are in the growth stage of our business and operate in an 37 Table of Contents emerging field of technology, we expect to continue to invest in research and development and expand our sales and marketing teams worldwide. We are likely to require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, the widespread COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. PIPE Investment On December 21, 2020, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, CLA entered into subscription agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors (collectively, the PIPE Investors), pursuant to which the PIPE Investors agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, 10,000,000 shares of Ouster common stock at $10.00 per share for an aggregate commitment amount of $100,000,000 (the PIPE Investment), a portion of which was funded by certain affiliates of Colonnade Sponsor LLC, CLAs sponsor (the Sponsor). The PIPE Investment was consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the Merger. Financing Arrangements On November 27, 2018, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Runway Growth Credit Fund, Inc. (Runway Loan and Security Agreement) and borrowed $10.0 million per the terms of that agreement with a loan maturity date of November 15, 2021. The loan carried an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 8.50%. We repaid $3.0 million of the loan in August 2020. On March 26, 2021 we terminated the Runway Loan and Security Agreement and repaid the $7.0 million principal amount outstanding as well as interest and fees amounting to $0.4 million. We incurred no prepayment fees in connection with the termination and all liens and security interests securing the loan made pursuant to the Runway Loan and Security Agreement were released upon termination. As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the outstanding principal balance of the loan was nil and $7.0 million, respectively. Cash Flow Summary Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (12,399) $ (11,834) Investing activities (597) (1,393) Financing activities 258,799 2 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, operating activities used $12.4 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $20.9 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $11.3 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation of $5.3 million, a $4.1 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, depreciation and amortization of $1.1 million, change in right-of-use asset of $0.5 million, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount of $0.3 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $2.8 million were primarily due to an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.2 million, a decrease in operating lease liability of $0.7 million, an increase in inventories of $0.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities of $0.3 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.1 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, operating activities used $11.8 million in cash. The primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $18.7 million, impacted by our non-cash charges of $9.2 million primarily consisting of a $5.3 million change in fair value of derivative liability, inventory obsolescence impairment of $1.5 million, interest expense on convertible debt of $0.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $0.8 million, change in right-of-use asset of $0.4 million, stock-based compensation of $0.2 million, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discount $0.1 million. The changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $3.5 million were primarily due to an increase 38 Table of Contents in inventories of $3.0 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $0.5 million. These amounts were partially offset by cash provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $1.1 million which primarily consists of an increase of accounts payable of $0.6 million, an increase in accrued and other current liabilities of $0.3 million, and an increase of operating lease liability of $0.2 million. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million, which was related to purchases of property, plant and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $1.4 million, which was related to purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $258.8 million, consisting primarily of $291.5 million proceeds (net of $8.4 million of pre-Merger costs relating to CLA) from the Merger and PIPE Investment offset by offerings costs of $26.1 million, and proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.5 million, partially offset by repayment of debt of $7.0 million. There were promissory notes to related parties of $5.0 million that were issued and repaid during the three months ended March 31, 2021. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $0.002 million, which was related to proceeds from exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table represents our other future non-cancelable contractual obligations as of March 31, 2021, aggregated by type: Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years More Than 3 Years Purchase commitments (1) $ 9,468 $ 9,468 $ $ Operating leases, including imputed interest (2) 16,460 3,554 7,575 5,331 Total contractual obligations $ 25,928 $ 13,022 $ 7,575 $ 5,331 (1) Relates to non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily inventory, entered into in the normal course of business. (2) Consists of future non-cancelable minimum rental payments under operating leases for offices and warehouse. We repaid the principal amount owed on our debt during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts we report as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Exhibit 99.3 to our Super 8-K. Refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 39 Table of Contents Please refer to Note 2 in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.