Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our f inal prospectus related to our initial public offering, or IPO, dated April 11, 2019, or the Prospectus, filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424 (b) under the Securities Act of 1933 (File No. 333-230323) . You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements above in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A below. The last day of our fiscal year is January 31. Our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31. Overview Our mission is to connect teams to real-time opportunity and elevate work to the outcomes that matter. We act as the central nervous system for the digital enterprise, providing for real-time operations. We collect digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device, correlate and interpret these signals, and combine them with human response data, orchestrating teams to take the right actions in real time. We mine machine data and human response data to embed analytics, machine learning, and automation within our platform. Our platform learns from every incident, allowing teams to be proactive and incorporate best practices into their operations to improve performance. Our products help organizations improve operations, accelerate innovation, increase revenue, mitigate security risk, and deliver great customer experience. Since our founding in 2009, we have expanded our capabilities from a single product focused on on-call management to a real-time operations platform, spanning event intelligence, incident response, on-call management, business visibility, and analytics. We have invested in developing the scalability, reliability, and security of our platform to address the needs of even the largest and most demanding customers. We have over 300 ecosystem partners that enable our customers to gather and correlate digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device. As of April 30, 2019 , we had over 11,600 customers - ranging from startups to Fortune 50 companies. Our customers use our products across a broad range of use cases such as DevOps, Security, IT Operations, Business and Internet of Things. Our platform is easy to adopt and scalable for businesses of all sizes. We generate revenue primarily through sales of subscriptions to our software. We offer a range of pricing plans aligned with our customers needs and their digital operations maturity. We have a land and expand business model that leads to viral adoption of our products and subsequent expansion. Our online self-service model is the primary mechanism for landing new customers, enabling teams to get started without assistance. We complement our self-service model with a high-velocity inside sales team focused on the midmarket and small and medium business, and a field sales team focused on enterprise customers. These teams drive expansion to additional users, additional teams, and new use cases, as well as upsell premium functionality. Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers using our platform, particularly those that have subscription agreements for more than $100,000 in annual recurring revenue, or ARR, are indicators of our market penetration, particularly within enterprise accounts, the growth of our business, and our potential future business opportunities. Increasing 16 awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities, coupled with the mainstream adoption of cloud-based, always on technology, has expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all sizes across virtually all industries. Over time, larger customers have constituted a greater share of our revenue. As of April 30, 2019 2018 Customers 11,680 10,139 Customers greater than $100,000 in ARR 242 160 Dollar-based Net Retention Rate We use dollar-based net retention rate to evaluate the long-term value of our customer relationships, since this metric reflects our ability to retain and expand the ARR from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares our ARR from the same set of customers across comparable periods. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period ARR. We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end, or Current Period ARR. Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of downgrades or churn over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the dollar-based net retention rate. Last 12 Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Dollar-based net retention rate for all customers 137 % 136% Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate subscription revenue from customers accessing our platform. Our subscriptions are typically one year in duration but can range from monthly to multi-year. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users per customer, and the level of subscription purchased. We generally invoice customers in advance in annual installments for subscriptions to our platform. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period beginning on the date we grant access to our platform, assuming that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Due to the low complexity of implementation and integration of our platform with our customers existing infrastructure, revenue from professional services has been immaterial to date. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to providing our platform to customers, including personnel expenses for operations and global support, payments to our third-party cloud infrastructure providers for hosting our software, payment processing fees, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs, and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology, and other overhead costs. We will continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and success organizations to expand the capability of our platform and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our offerings. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as our revenue fluctuates, and as a result of the timing 17 and amount of investments to expand the capacity of our third-party cloud infrastructure providers and our continued efforts to enhance our platform support and customer success teams. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, shared IT related expenses, including depreciation expense, and certain companywide events and functions. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our engineering, product, and design teams. Additionally, research and development expenses include contractor fees, depreciation of equipment used in research and development activities, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, costs of general marketing activities and promotional activities, travel-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. Sales commissions earned by our sales force that are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a subscription with a customer are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be four years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar value and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and contractor fees for finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions. In addition, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel costs, such as legal, accounting, and other professional fees, hardware and software costs, certain tax, license and insurance-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We are incurring additional expenses than we have historically experienced as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services and to invest in processes and systems. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. However, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term as we expect our investments to allow for improved efficiency for future growth in the business. Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned on our money market funds included in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Other Income, Net Other income, net primarily consists of sublease income related to our San Francisco lease and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. 18 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Revenue $ 37,314 $ 25,020 Cost of revenue (1) 5,486 3,885 Gross profit 31,828 21,135 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 10,906 7,719 Sales and marketing (1) 21,167 13,294 General and administrative (1) 12,484 7,116 Total operating expenses 44,557 28,129 Loss from operations (12,729 ) (6,994 ) Interest income 889 130 Other income, net 21 389 Loss before provision for income taxes (11,819 ) (6,475 ) Provision for income taxes (245 ) (104 ) Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (12,064 ) $ (6,579 ) ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Cost of revenue $ 143 $ 61 Research and development 860 715 Sales and marketing 1,464 852 General and administrative 2,345 1,529 Total $ 4,812 $ 3,157 19 The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 15 16 Gross margin 85 % 84 % Operating expenses: Research and development 29 31 Sales and marketing 57 53 General and administrative 33 28 Total operating expenses 119 % 112 % Loss from operations (34 ) (28 ) Interest income 2 1 Other income, net 2 Loss before provision for income taxes (32 ) (26 ) Provision for income taxes (1 ) Net loss and comprehensive loss (32 )% (26 )% ______________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 37,314 $ 25,020 $ 12,294 49 % Revenue increased by $12.3 million , or 49% , for the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 . The increase in revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to the growth from existing customers and, to a lesser extent, from the revenue attributable to new customers. Growth from existing customers is attributable to both increases in the number of users and upsells of additional functionality. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 5,486 $ 3,885 $ 1,601 41 % Gross margin 85 % 84 % Cost of revenue increased by $1.6 million , or 41% , for the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $0.6 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount, an increase of $0.4 million in hosting and software costs, and an increase of $0.3 million in allocated overhead costs to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure. 20 Our gross margin increased slightly from 84% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 to 85% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The overall increase in gross margin reflects our increased revenue for the period, as well as our continued commitment to managing personnel expenses and costs related to our third-party hosting services. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 10,906 $ 7,719 $ 3,187 41 % Percentage of revenue 29 % 31 % Research and development expenses increased by $3.2 million , or 41% , for the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount to support our continued investment in our platform, and a $0.3 million increase in outside professional services. Costs to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure increased $0.7 million which includes allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 21,167 $ 13,294 $ 7,873 59 % Percentage of revenue 57 % 53 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $7.9 million , or 59% , for the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $4.5 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount to support our go-to-market strategy and increased variable compensation for our sales personnel (including amortization of deferred contract costs) in line with our revenue growth. Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to a $1.1 million increase in travel related expenses reflecting the increase in headcount and marketing events as well as our sales kick off for fiscal 2020, a $0.5 million increase in marketing and promotional expenses driven by increases in advertising, and a $0.7 million increase in the use of outside professional services. In addition, allocated overhead costs increased $1.1 million to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 12,484 $ 7,116 $ 5,368 75 % Percentage of revenue 33 % 28 % General and administrative expenses increased by $5.4 million , or 75% , for the three months ended April 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.2 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount and $0.4 million increase in the use of outside professional services as we made certain investments to prepare for becoming a public company. Costs to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure increased $1.3 million which includes allocated overhead costs. 21 Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the below referenced non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is that they exclude significant expenses that are required by GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by our management about which expenses are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit adjusted for share-based compensation expense. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 31,828 $ 21,135 Add: Stock-based compensation 143 61 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 31,971 $ 21,196 Gross margin 85 % 84 % Non-GAAP gross margin 86 % 85 % Non-GAAP Operating Loss and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as loss from operations plus our stock-based compensation expense. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (12,729 ) $ (6,994 ) Add: Stock-based compensation 4,812 3,157 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (7,917 ) $ (3,837 ) Operating margin (34 )% (28 )% Non-GAAP operating margin (21 )% (15 )% 22 Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss plus our stock-based compensation expense. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net loss $ (12,064 ) $ (6,579 ) Add: Stock-based compensation 4,812 3,157 Non-GAAP net loss $ (7,252 ) $ (3,422 ) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property and equipment. In addition to the reasons stated above, we believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash in excess of our capital investments in property and equipment to enhance the strength of our balance sheet and further invest in our business and potential strategic initiatives. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. We use free cash flow in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our liquidity, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to assess our liquidity. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,566 ) $ (4,310 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (1,190 ) (382 ) Free cash flow $ (8,756 ) $ (4,692 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,190 ) (382 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 218,918 $ 299 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through sales of our subscriptions and the net proceeds we have received from sales of equity securities and borrowings on our prior loan facilities. On April 15, 2019, upon the closing of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $213.7 million , after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions of $16.6 million and other issuance costs of $6.4 million . As of April 30, 2019 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $338.0 million . We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by sales of our subscriptions will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our subscription growth rate, subscription renewal activity, including the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our 23 operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition. A significant majority of our customers pay in advance for annual subscriptions. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from our deferred revenue, which is included in the liabilities section of our consolidated balance sheet. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of customer billings, which is recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of April 30, 2019 , we had deferred revenue of $66.5 million , of which $66.2 million was recorded as a current liability and expected to be recorded as revenue in the next twelve months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented : Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,566 ) $ (4,310 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,190 ) (382 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 218,918 299 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collection from sales of subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses and hosting and software expenses. In the last several years, we have generated negative cash flows from operating activities and have supplemented working capital requirements through net proceeds from the private sales and public sale of equity securities. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2019 of $7.6 million primarily related to our net loss of $12.1 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $7.2 million and net cash outflows of $2.7 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, amortization of our deferred contract costs, and bad debt expense. Changes in operating assets and liabilities reflected cash inflows from a $2.4 million increase in deferred revenue resulting primarily from increased billings for subscriptions, and a $1.6 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash collections. These amounts were partially offset by a $2.8 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings, a $1.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to prepayments made in advance for future services, a $1.3 million decrease in accrued compensation due to payouts of prior year bonuses and commissions, and a $1.0 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 of $4.3 million primarily related to our net loss of $6.6 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $4.4 million and net cash outflows of $2.1 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, amortization of our deferred contract costs, and bad debt expense. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities related to a $3.3 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from increased billings for subscriptions, and a $0.6 million increase in accrued compensation due to an increase in headcount. These amounts were partially offset by an increase of $2.3 million in prepaid expenses and other assets related to prepayments made in advance for future services, a $2.2 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings, and a net decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1.6 million . 24 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2019 of $1.2 million consisted primarily of purchases of property and equipment to support additional office space for our San Francisco office and additional headcount. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 of $0.4 million was the result of purchases of property and equipment, of which a substantial majority related to purchases of computers for new employees. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2019 of $218.9 million consisted primarily of net proceeds from the initial public offering of $220.1 million , after underwriting discounts and commissions, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and repayment of a promissory note of $2.8 million , partially offset by $3.9 million in payments related to costs associated with our initial public offering. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2018 of $0.3 million consisted primarily of net proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended April 30, 2019 , there were no material changes in our contractual obligations and other commitments, as disclosed in the Prospectus. For further information on our commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 5 in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements of varying scope and terms pursuant to which we agree to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain officers and employees that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers, or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements, and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or consolidated statements of cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently have and, as of April 30, 2019 or during the periods presented, did not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In the preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates. 25 These policies are discussed in Note 2 in the Prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, on April 11, 2019. There have been no significant changes to these policies for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Recently Accounting Pronouncements For further information on our recently adopted accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2 in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.