Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant estimates and judgments involve stock-based compensation expense, the fair value of the employee stock purchase plan expense, period of benefit for amortizing deferred contract costs, the determination of the allowance for doubtful accounts, and the provision for income taxes, including related valuation allowance and uncertain tax positions, among others. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls to effectively manage our operations and growth. We may not be able to successfully implement and scale improvements to our systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our operating results. In addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. We may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes, and controls in connection with the implementation of third-party software or otherwise, which could impair our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner, limit us to smaller deployments of our products, increase our technical support costs or cause us to be unable to timely and accurately report our financial results in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, we may experience material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until we file our first annual report with the SEC following the date when we are no longer an emerging growth company. Our independent registered public accounting firm may, during the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. 30 Table of Contents Our management team has limited experience managing a public company. Our management team has limited experience managing a publicly-traded company, interacting with public company investors and securities analysts, and complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. These obligations and constituents require significant attention from our management team and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our proprietary rights, and any failure to adequately protect such rights could impair our competitive position and result in the loss of valuable intellectual property rights, reduced revenue and costly litigation. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions in an effort to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. While we have been issued patents in the United States and have additional patent applications pending, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, any patents that are issued may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Any of our patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products, or design around our patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, and disclosure of our products may be unenforceable under the laws of jurisdictions outside the United States. In addition, certain countries into which we might expand our business might require us, as examples, to do business through an entity that is partially owned by a local investor, to make available our technologies to state regulators, or to grant license rights to local partners in a manner not required by the jurisdictions in which we currently operate. As we expand our international activities, our exposure to reverse engineering of our technologies and unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information or in avoiding misuse of proprietary information or intellectual property. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our platform. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming, and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could impair or delay additional sales, renewals or customer adoption of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new products, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our platform, or injure our reputation. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We have in the past and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert managements attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, which could reduce the trading price of our stock. We have in the past, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. We have in the past and may in the future become subject to intellectual property disputes. Lawsuits are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and they divert managements time and attention. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits and cannot assure you that the results of any such actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims against their use. In addition, many companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources than we do to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Any litigation may also involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue, and therefore, our patents may provide little or no deterrence as we would not be able to assert them against such entities or individuals. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software or cease business activities related to such intellectual property. Any inability to license third-party technology in the future would have an adverse effect on our business or operating results and would adversely affect our ability to compete. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers in the event of infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend, and damaging to our reputation and brand. We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software in our products. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate it into their products. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, although we employ open source software license screening measures, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If we inappropriately use or incorporate open source software subject to certain types of open source licenses that challenge the proprietary nature of our products, we may be required to re-engineer such products, discontinue the sale of such products or take other remedial actions. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, data protection, and other losses. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, inadequate data protection, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising 32 Table of Contents from our platform or other contractual obligations. Some of these indemnity agreements provide for uncapped liability and some indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability, and we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our platform or products as a result of any such claims. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing or new customers, harming our business and results of operations. In addition, although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our indemnification obligations or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging compromises of customer data, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business. We are subject to the FCPA, U.S. domestic bribery laws, the UK Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we increase our international sales and business and sales to the public sector, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our services and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal proceeding, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly those related to privacy, data protection, and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business, by resulting in litigation, fines, penalties, or adverse publicity and reputational damage that may negatively affect the value of our business and decrease the price of our common stock. Compliance with such laws could also result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit sales of our solutions. We receive, store, and process personal information and other data from and about actual and prospective customers and users, in addition to our employees and service providers. In addition, it is possible that customers may use our services to obtain and store personal information, personal identifiable information, personal health information, and personal financial information. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and 33 Table of Contents various state, local, and foreign agencies. Our data handling also is subject to contractual obligations and industry standards. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use, and storage of data relating to individuals and businesses, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising, and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data, including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Gramm Leach Bliley Act and state laws relating to privacy and data security, including the California Consumer Privacy Act. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. The laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security are evolving, can be subject to significant change, and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. In addition, several foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the EU and the U.K., have laws and regulations dealing with the handling and processing of personal information obtained from their residents, which in certain cases are more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure, and security of various types of data, including data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, email addresses, and in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol, or IP, addresses. Such laws and regulations may be modified or subject to new or different interpretations, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, significantly increases the level of sanctions for non-compliance from those in existing EU data protection law and imposes direct obligations on data processors in addition to data controllers. EU data protection authorities will have the power to impose administrative fines for violations of the GDPR of up to a maximum of 20 million or 4% of the data controllers or data processors total worldwide global turnover for the preceding fiscal year, whichever is higher, and violations of the GDPR may also lead to damages claims by data controllers and data subjects. Such penalties are in addition to any civil litigation claims by data controllers, customers, and data subjects. In addition, arising from Brexit, the UK enacted a Data Protection Act in May 2018 that is designed to be consistent with the GDPR. Since we act as a data processor for our customers, we are taking steps to cause our processes to be compliant with applicable portions of the GDPR and the U.K.s Data Protection Act, but we cannot assure you that such steps will be effective. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly laws outside the United States, as a result of the rapidly evolving regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide. For example, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties are currently being tested by a number of claims, including actions based on invasion of privacy and other torts, unfair competition, copyright and trademark infringement, and other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched, the ads posted, or the content provided by users. As a result of the laws that are or may be applicable to us, and due to the sensitive nature of the information we collect, we have implemented policies and procedures to preserve and protect our data and our customers data against loss, misuse, corruption, misappropriation caused by systems failures, unauthorized access, or misuse. If our policies, procedures, or measures relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, or customer communications fail to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations, or industry standards, we may be subject to governmental enforcement actions, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, penalties, and negative publicity and could cause our application providers, customers and partners to lose trust in us, and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that may apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations, rules, and other standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws, rules, regulations, and other actual or alleged legal obligations, such as contractual or self-regulatory obligations, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the functionality of our platform. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be 34 Table of Contents required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our software, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal, or contractual obligations, industry standards, or regulatory guidance relating to privacy or data security, may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions (including, for example, a ban by EU data protection supervisory authorities on the processing of EU personal data under the GDPR), litigation, fines and penalties, or adverse publicity, and could cause our customers and partners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations, and industry standards relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, consumer communications, and information security in the United States, the EU, and other jurisdictions, and we cannot determine the impact such future laws, regulations, and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations or any changed interpretation of existing laws or regulations could impair our ability to develop and market new functionality and maintain and grow our customer base and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing, or disclosure of data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of our customers, partners, or end consumers for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to incur additional costs or modify our platform, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new functionality. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain products, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers in the event of our breach of data privacy laws. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect the growth of our business. Furthermore, any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our operating results. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local, and foreign governments. For example, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 restricts telemarketing and the use of automatic text messages without proper consent. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to the delivery of text messages are continuously evolving and developing. If we do not comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations due to the failure of our customers to comply with these laws by obtaining proper consent, we could face direct liability. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than those in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, or other collateral consequences. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. Our sales to government entities and highly regulated organizations are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We sell to U.S. federal, state, and local, as well as foreign, governmental agency customers, as well as to customers in highly regulated industries such as financial services, pharmaceuticals, insurance, healthcare, and life sciences. Sales to such entities are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to such entities can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. Government contracting requirements may change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained the revised certification. Government demand and payment for our offerings are affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our offerings. Further, governmental and highly regulated entities may demand contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. Such entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with us or 35 Table of Contents our partners due to a default or for other reasons. Any such termination may adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. Our platform is subject to U.S. export controls, including the Export Administration Regulations, and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products. These encryption products and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption classification request or self-classification report. Furthermore, our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control that prohibit the shipment of most products and services to embargoed jurisdictions or sanctioned parties without the required export authorizations. Additionally, the Trump administration has been critical of existing trade agreements and may impose more stringent export controls. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Until recently we had a limited export compliance program. While we have implemented additional precautions to prevent our products from being exported in violation of these laws, including obtaining authorizations for our encryption products and implementing IP address blocking and screenings against U.S. government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons, we cannot guarantee that the precautions we take will prevent violations of export control or economic sanctions regulations. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control regulations can result in significant fines or penalties and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers. If our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export, or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm, as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our end-customers ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our platform in international markets, prevent our end-customers with international operations from deploying our platform globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. From time to time, various governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, including the escrow and government recovery of private encryption keys. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, increased export and import controls, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would adversely affect our business, operating results, and growth prospects. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in the pricing of subscriptions to our platform and products; changes in our projected operating and financial results; 36 Table of Contents changes in laws or regulations applicable to our platform and products; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new offerings; our involvement in litigation; future sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; changes in senior management or key personnel; the trading volume of our common stock; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions, including the impact of the recent coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19), may also negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, given the relatively small initial public float of shares of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, the trading market for our shares may be subject to increased volatility. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Under our investors rights agreement, certain stockholders can require us to register shares owned by them for public sale in the U.S. In addition, we filed a registration statement to register shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. As a result, subject to the satisfaction of applicable exercise and/or vesting periods, the shares issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options or upon settlement of outstanding RSU awards will be available for immediate resale in the U.S. in the open market. We may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. Our stock price and trading volume following is heavily influenced by the way analysts and investors interpret our financial information and other disclosures. Further, the trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. A limited number of analysts are currently covering our company. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, downgrade our common stock, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If the number of analysts that cover us declines, demand for our common stock could decrease and our common stock price and trading volume may decline. Even if our common stock is actively covered by analysts, we do not have any control over the analysts or the measures that analysts or investors may rely upon to forecast our future results. Over-reliance by analysts or investors on any particular metric to forecast our future results may result in forecasts that differ significantly from our own. Regardless of accuracy, unfavorable interpretations of our financial information and other public 37 Table of Contents disclosures could have a negative impact on our stock price. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates, for any of the reasons discussed above or otherwise, or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or change their opinion of our common stock, our stock price would likely decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings and sales of subscriptions to our products. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we incur additional debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of common stock to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuance of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuance of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our common stock and diluting their interests. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our common stock less attractive to investors. In addition, if we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will no longer be able to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. 38 Table of Contents We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the closing of the IPO, (ii) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities, or (iv) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of July 31 of such fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. For example, if we do not adopt a new or revised accounting standard, our future operating results may not be as comparable to the operating results of certain other companies in our industry that adopted such standards. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which we expect to further increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2021. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have commenced the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, but we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion once initiated. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management efforts. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. 39 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, or our chief executive officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of our outstanding shares of common stock; provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of our outstanding shares of common stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you would receive a premium for your shares of our common stock in an acquisition. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, to the extent enforceable, the federal district courts of the United States of America as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which restricts our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of a fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws, or any action asserting a 40 Table of Contents claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The provisions do not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, subject to and contingent upon a final adjudication in the State of Delaware of the enforceability of such exclusive forum provision. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees. If a court were to find either choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. For example, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware recently determined that the exclusive forum provision of federal district courts of the United States of America for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act is not enforceable. However, this decision may be reviewed and ultimately overturned by the Delaware Supreme Court. If this ultimate adjudication were to occur, we would enforce the federal district court exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters is located in San Francisco, California, and consists of approximately 59,000 square feet of space under a lease that is expected to expire in 2025. We also have office locations in Atlanta, Georgia; Seattle, Washington; Toronto, Canada; Sydney, Australia; and London, United Kingdom. We intend to expand our existing facilities or add new facilities as we add employees and enter new geographic markets, and we believe that suitable additional or alternative space will be available as needed to accommodate any such growth. However, we expect to incur additional expenses in connection with such new or expanded facilities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which, we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, or financial condition. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 41 Table of Contents Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol PD since April 11, 2019. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our common stock. Holders of Record As of January 31, 2020 , we had 79 holders of record of our common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, general business conditions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The following graph compares (i) the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock from April 11, 2019 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the NYSE through January 31, 2020 with (ii) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and S&P Software & Services Select Industry Index over the same period, assuming the investment of $100 in our common stock and in both of the other indices on April 11, 2019 and the reinvestment of dividends. The graph uses the closing market price on April 11, 2019 of $38.25 per share as the initial value of our common stock. As discussed above, we have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock and do not anticipate declaring or paying a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. 42 Table of Contents Unregistered Sales of Securities and Use of Proceeds Use of Proceeds In April 2019, we closed our initial public offering, in which we sold 9,860,500 shares of common stock at a price to the public of $24.00 per share, including shares sold in connection with the exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares and excluding shares of common stock sold in the IPO by certain of our existing stockholders. The offer and sale of all of the shares in the IPO were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-230323), which was declared effective by the SEC on April 10, 2019. We raised aggregate net proceeds of $213.7 million from the IPO, after underwriting discounts and commissions and payments of offering costs. Following the sale of the shares in connection with the IPO, the offering terminated. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from the IPO as described in the Prospectus. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial and Other Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2020 , 2019 , and 2018 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2020 and 2019 , have been derived from our audited 43 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. The selected consolidated financial data in this section are not intended to replace our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and are qualified in their entirety by the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 166,351 $ 117,823 $ 79,630 Cost of revenue (1) 24,579 17,255 12,717 Gross profit 141,772 100,568 66,913 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 49,011 38,858 33,532 Sales and marketing (1) 97,350 64,060 47,354 General and administrative (1) 50,970 39,971 24,343 Total operating expenses 197,331 142,889 105,229 Loss from operations (55,559 ) (42,321 ) (38,316 ) Interest income 5,692 1,249 371 Interest expense (702 ) Other income, net 203 1,032 682 Loss before provision for income taxes (49,664 ) (40,040 ) (37,965 ) Provision for income taxes (675 ) (701 ) (184 ) Net loss $ (50,339 ) $ (40,741 ) $ (38,149 ) Other comprehensive gain: Unrealized gain on investments 137 Total comprehensive loss $ (50,202 ) $ (40,741 ) $ (38,149 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.77 ) $ (1.90 ) $ (1.91 ) Weighted average shares used in calculating net loss per share, basic and diluted 65,544 21,410 19,986 ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense and non-cash charitable contribution expense as follows (in thousands): Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,018 $ 282 $ 385 Research and development 5,566 8,171 9,796 Sales and marketing 8,924 3,982 3,831 General and administrative (1) 11,697 12,860 4,140 Total $ 27,205 $ 25,295 $ 18,152 ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. 44 Table of Contents Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 124,024 $ 127,875 $ 43,999 Investments 227,375 Working capital 289,959 84,028 18,980 Total assets 435,398 197,234 81,368 Deferred revenue 92,569 64,104 38,169 Total stockholders equity (deficit) 307,938 (68,930 ) (56,365 ) Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers using our platform, particularly those with whom we have contracted for more than $100,000 in annual recurring revenue (ARR), is an indicator of our market penetration, the growth of our business, and our potential future business opportunities. Increasing awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities, coupled with the fact that the world is always on and powered by increasingly complex technology, has expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all sizes across virtually all industries. Over time, enterprise and mid-market customers have constituted a greater share of our revenue. As of January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Customers 12,774 11,212 9,793 Customers greater than $100,000 in ARR 323 228 144 Dollar-based Net Retention Rate We use dollar-based net retention rate to evaluate the long-term value of our customer relationships; it is driven by our ability to retain and expand the ARR from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares our ARR from the same set of customers across comparable periods. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Dollar-based net retention rate for all customers 122 % 140 % 134 % See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business MetricsDollar-based Net Retention Rate for information about how we calculate dollar-based net retention rate. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. 45 Table of Contents Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (28,354 ) $ (17,026 ) $ (20,164 ) Non-GAAP operating margin (17 )% (14 )% (25 )% Non-GAAP Operating Loss and Margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as loss from operations excluding our stock-based compensation expense and charitable contribution - issuance of common stock warrant. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of revenue. We use non-GAAP operating loss in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP operating margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period to period comparisons of operations, as these metrics generally eliminate the effects of certain variables unrelated to overall operating performance. Limitations and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Operating Loss and Margin Non-GAAP operating loss has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results under GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP operating loss versus loss from operations determined under GAAP. Other companies may calculate non-GAAP operating loss differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of non-GAAP operating loss as a tool for comparison. The following table reconciles loss from operations determined under GAAP to non-GAAP operating loss. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Loss from operations $ (55,559 ) $ (42,321 ) $ (38,316 ) Add: Stock-based compensation (1) 27,205 25,295 18,152 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (28,354 ) $ (17,026 ) $ (20,164 ) ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the section titled Selected Consolidated Financial and Other Data and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Our mission is to connect teams to real-time opportunity and elevate work to the outcomes that matter. 46 Table of Contents We act as the central nervous system for the digital enterprise. We collect machine generated data from virtually any software-enabled system or device, combine it with human response data, correlating and interpreting this data to understand issues and opportunities that need to be addressed in real-time. Using machine learning and automation, we bring together the right people with the right information so they can resolve issues and act on opportunities in minutes and seconds, not hours. Since our founding in 2009, we have expanded our capabilities from a single product focused on on-call management to a real-time operations platform, spanning event intelligence, incident response, on-call management, business visibility, and advanced analytics. We have invested in developing the scalability, reliability, and security of our platform to address the needs of even the largest and most demanding customers. We have spent years building deep product integrations to our platform, and our ecosystem includes over 350 integrations to enable our customers to gather and correlate digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device, and allow them to connect with popular collaboration tools and business applications. Our platform is easy to adopt and scalable for businesses of all sizes. We generate revenue primarily through sales of subscriptions to our software. We offer a range of pricing plans aligned with our customers needs and the sophistication of their digital operations. We have a land and expand business model that leads to viral adoption of our products and subsequent expansion. Our online self-service model is the primary mechanism for landing new customers and enabling teams to get started without assistance. We complement our self-service model with a high-velocity inside sales team focused on the midmarket and small and medium business, and a field sales team focused on enterprise customers. These teams drive expansion to additional users, additional teams, and new use cases, as well as upsell premium functionality. The majority of our revenue is derived from midmarket and enterprise customers. As of January 31, 2020 , we had more than 12,000 customers globally, ranging from the most disruptive startups to established Fortune 100 companies across every industry including software and technology, telecommunications, retail, travel and hospitality, media and entertainment, and financial services. Our customers use our products across a broad range of use cases such as Engineering, IT Operations, Security, and Customer Service. Of these customers, 323 customers have annual recurring revenue (ARR) in excess of $100,000, and 18 customers have ARR in excess of $1,000,000. We define ARR as the annualized recurring value of all active contracts at the end of a reporting period. We define a customer as a separate legal entity, such as a company or an educational or government institution, that has an active subscription with us or one of our partners to access our platform. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, we treat the parent entity as the customer instead of treating each subsidiary or division as a separate customer. Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 13% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 , and no single customer represented more than 10% of our revenue in the same period, highlighting the breadth of our customer base. We serve a vital role in our customers digital operations and grow with them as their needs expand. As such, we have developed a loyal customer base, with total ARR churn representing less than 5% of beginning ARR for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 . Our ARR churn rate represents lost revenue from customers that were no longer contributing revenue at the end of the current period but did contribute revenue in the equivalent prior year period. We generally bill monthly subscriptions monthly and subscriptions with terms of greater than one year annually in advance. We expand within our existing customer base by adding more users (e.g., more developers), creating additional use cases (e.g., developer to IT), and upselling higher priced packages and additional products. Once our platform is deployed, we typically see significant expansion within our customer base. Our dollar-based net retention rate was 122% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 . We have a highly efficient operating model, which comes from a combination of our cloud-native architecture, optimal utilization of our third-party hosting providers, and prudent approach to headcount expansion. This has allowed us to achieve best-in-class gross margins of over 85% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 . Our strong gross margins allow us the flexibility to invest more in our platform and sales organization while maintaining strong operating leverage on our path to profitability. 47 Table of Contents Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Attracting New Customers Sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new customers. We will continue to invest in building brand awareness as we further penetrate our addressable markets. Our financial performance will depend in large part on the overall demand for our platform, particularly demand from midmarket and enterprise customers, and our ability to meet the evolving needs of our customers. As of January 31, 2020 , we had over 12,000 customers spanning organizations of a broad range of sizes and industries, compared to over 11,000 as of January 31, 2019 . Expanding Within our Customer Base The majority of our revenue is generated from our existing customer base. Often our customers expand the deployment of our platform across large teams and more broadly within the enterprise as they realize the benefits of our platform. We believe that our land and expand business model allows us to efficiently increase revenue from our existing customer base. Further, we will continue to invest in enhancing awareness of our brand, creating additional use cases, and developing more products, features, and functionality, which we believe are important factors to achieve widespread adoption of our platform. We have a history of attracting new customers and expanding their use of our platform over time, as illustrated in the cohort chart above. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 , less than 5% of customers with greater than $100,000 in ARR were new customers, which reflects the typical customer behavior expected of our land and expand business modelstarting with a smaller-sized subscription and expanding it over time. Sustaining Product Innovation and Technology Leadership Our success is dependent on our ability to sustain product innovation and technology leadership in order to maintain our competitive advantage. We believe that we have built a highly differentiated platform that will position us to further extend the adoption of our products. While sales of subscriptions to our On-Call Management product account for the substantial majority of our revenue, we intend to continue to invest in building additional products, features and functionality that expand our capabilities and facilitate the extension of our platform to new use cases. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop, market and sell these additional products to both new and existing customers. Continued Investment in Growth We plan to continue investing in our business so we can capitalize on our market opportunity. We intend to grow our sales team to target expansion within our midmarket and enterprise customers and to attract new customers. We expect to continue to make focused investments in marketing to drive brand awareness and enhance the effectiveness of our self-service, low friction customer acquisition model. We also intend to continue to add headcount to our research and development team to develop new and improved products, features and functionality. Although these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe that they will contribute to our long-term growth. Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers using our platform, particularly those that have subscription agreements for more than $100,000 in ARR are indicators of our market penetration, particularly within enterprise accounts, the growth of our business, and our potential future business opportunities. Increasing awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities, coupled with the fact that the world is always on and powered by increasingly complex technology, has expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all 48 Table of Contents sizes across virtually all industries. Over time, enterprise and mid-market customers have constituted a greater share of our revenue. As of January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Customers 12,774 11,212 9,793 Customers greater than $100,000 in ARR 323 228 144 Dollar-based Net Retention Rate We use dollar-based net retention rate to evaluate the long-term value of our customer relationships, since this metric reflects our ability to retain and expand the ARR from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares our ARR from the same set of customers across comparable periods. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period ARR. We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end, or Current Period ARR. Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of downgrades or churn over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the dollar-based net retention rate. Last 12 Months Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Dollar-based net retention rate for all customers 122 % 140 % 134 % Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate subscription revenue from customers accessing our platform. Our subscriptions are typically one year in duration but can range from monthly to multi-year. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users per customer, and the level of subscription purchased. We generally invoice customers in advance in annual installments for subscriptions to our platform. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period beginning on the date we grant access to our platform, assuming that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Due to the low complexity of implementation and integration of our platform with our customers existing infrastructure, revenue from professional services has been immaterial to date. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to providing our platform to customers, including personnel expenses for operations and global support, payments to our third-party cloud infrastructure providers for hosting our software, payment processing fees, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs, and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology, and other allocated overhead costs. We will continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and success organizations to expand the capability of our platform and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our offerings. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as our revenue fluctuates, and as a result of the 49 Table of Contents timing and amount of investments to expand the capacity of our third-party cloud infrastructure providers and our continued efforts to enhance our platform support and customer success teams. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, shared IT related expenses, including depreciation expense, and certain companywide events and functions. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our engineering, product, and design teams. Additionally, research and development expenses include contractor fees, depreciation of equipment used in research and development activities, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, costs of general marketing activities and promotional activities, travel related expenses, allocated overhead costs, and bad debt expense. Sales commissions earned by our sales force that are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a subscription with a customer are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be four years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar value and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and contractor fees for finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions. In addition, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel costs, such as legal, accounting, and other professional fees, hardware and software costs, certain tax, license and insurance-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We are incurring additional expenses that we have not historically incurred as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services and to invest in processes and systems. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. However, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term as we expect our investments to allow for improved efficiency for future growth in the business. Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and interest earned on our short term investments which consist of U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and U.S. Government agency securities. Other Income, Net Other income, net primarily consists of accretion income on our held-to-maturity and available-for-sale investments, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and sublease income related to our San Francisco lease, which expired in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. 50 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Revenue $ 166,351 $ 117,823 $ 79,630 Cost of revenue (1) 24,579 17,255 12,717 Gross profit 141,772 100,568 66,913 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 49,011 38,858 33,532 Sales and marketing (1) 97,350 64,060 47,354 General and administrative (1) 50,970 39,971 24,343 Total operating expenses 197,331 142,889 105,229 Loss from operations (55,559 ) (42,321 ) (38,316 ) Interest income 5,692 1,249 371 Interest expense (702 ) Other income, net 203 1,032 682 Loss before provision for income taxes (49,664 ) (40,040 ) (37,965 ) Provision for income taxes (675 ) (701 ) (184 ) Net loss $ (50,339 ) $ (40,741 ) $ (38,149 ) ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense and non-cash charitable contribution expense as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,018 $ 282 $ 385 Research and development 5,566 8,171 9,796 Sales and marketing 8,924 3,982 3,831 General and administrative (1) 11,697 12,860 4,140 Total $ 27,205 $ 25,295 $ 18,152 ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. 51 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 15 15 16 Gross margin 85 % 85 % 84 % Operating expenses: Research and development 29 33 42 Sales and marketing 59 54 59 General and administrative 31 34 31 Total operating expenses 119 % 121 % 132 % Loss from operations (33 ) (36 ) (48 ) Interest income 3 1 Interest expense (1 ) Other income, net 1 1 Loss before provision for income taxes (30 ) (34 ) (48 ) Provision for income taxes (1 ) Net loss (30 )% (35 )% (48 )% ______________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Years Ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 166,351 $ 117,823 $ 48,528 41 % Revenue increased by $48.5 million , or 41% , for fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 . The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to the growth from existing customers and, to a lesser extent, from revenue attributable to new customers. Growth from existing customers is attributable to both increases in the number of users and upsells of additional products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 24,579 $ 17,255 $ 7,324 42 % Gross margin 85 % 85 % Gross margin was 85% for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 , and while cost of revenue increased by $7.3 million , or 42% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended 52 Table of Contents January 31, 2019 , the increase was in line with our increase in revenue, resulting in gross margin remaining unchanged year-over-year. This increase in cost of revenue was primarily due to an increase of $2.7 million in hosting, software, and telecom costs to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure, an increase of $2.3 million in personnel expenses and an increase of $1.4 million in allocated overhead costs, both of which are due to increased headcount. Research and Development Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 49,011 $ 38,858 $ 10,153 26 % Percentage of revenue 29 % 33 % Research and development expenses increased by $10.2 million , or 26% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 and decreased as a percentage of revenue. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in personnel expenses of $4.6 million as a result of increased headcount to support our continued investment in our platform, an increase of $3.9 million in costs to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure, which includes allocated overhead costs, and an increase of $0.7 million in outside professional services due to an increase in consulting for engineering services. Sales and Marketing Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 97,350 $ 64,060 $ 33,290 52 % Percentage of revenue 59 % 54 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $33.3 million , or 52% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 and increased as a percentage of revenue. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $21.9 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount to support our go-to-market strategy and increased variable compensation for our sales personnel (including amortization of deferred contract costs). Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to increased allocated overhead costs of $4.8 million to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure, a $2.5 million increase in travel related expenses reflecting the increase in headcount, a $2.2 million increase in outside professional services due to our increased focus on growing our marketing presence, a $1.8 million increase in marketing and promotional expenses driven by increases in advertising for our brand campaign, and a $1.4 million increase in hosting and software costs due to new software purchases. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of $1.4 million, which was primarily due to improvements in the aging of our accounts receivable. General and Administrative Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 50,970 $ 39,971 $ 10,999 28 % Percentage of revenue 31 % 34 % General and administrative expenses increased by $11.0 million , or 28% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 . The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $14.3 53 Table of Contents million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount to support growth and becoming a public company. General and administrative expenses also increased due to a $1.2 million increase in other costs, including certain charitable contributions, events, and fees, and an increase of $1.0 million in travel costs, reflecting the increase in headcount. This was offset by a decrease in non-cash expense of $6.2 million recognized during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 for the warrant issued to the Tides Foundation. Interest Income and Other Income, Net Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 5,692 $ 1,249 $ 4,443 356 % Other income, net $ 203 $ 1,032 $ (829 ) (80 )% Interest income increased by $4.4 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to higher cash and cash equivalents and investments balances following our IPO. Other income, net decreased by $0.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 . The decrease in other income was primarily related to sublease income that we received prior to the sublease expiring in fiscal 2019. Comparison of the Years Ended January 31, 2019 , and 2018 Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 117,823 $ 79,630 $ 38,193 48 % Revenue increased by $38.2 million , or 48% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase in revenue was primarily attributable to the growth from existing customers and, to a lesser extent, from revenue attributable to new customers. Growth from existing customers is attributable to both increases in the number of users and upsells of additional products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 17,255 $ 12,717 $ 4,538 36 % Gross margin 85 % 84 % Cost of revenue increased by $4.5 million , or 36% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $2.3 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount, an increase of $0.9 million in hosting and software costs, an increase of $0.6 million in allocated overhead costs, and an increase of $0.3 million in outside professional services, all of which were to support the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure. Our gross margin slightly increased from 84% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 to 85% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. The overall increase in gross margin reflects our increased revenue for the period, as well as our continued commitment to managing personnel expenses and costs related to our third-party hosting services. 54 Table of Contents Research and Development Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 38,858 $ 33,532 $ 5,326 16 % Percentage of revenue 33 % 42 % Research and development expenses increased by $5.3 million , or 16% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $3.9 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount to support our continued investment in our platform, a $0.9 million increase in allocated overhead costs necessary for supporting the growth of the business and related infrastructure, and a $0.3 million increase in travel related expenses. Sales and Marketing Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 64,060 $ 47,354 $ 16,706 35 % Percentage of revenue 54 % 59 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $16.7 million , or 35% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase of $10.7 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount and increased variable compensation for our sales personnel (including amortization of deferred contract costs). In addition, marketing and promotional expenses increased $3.6 million, driven by increases in advertising, sponsorships, attendance at conferences, and brand awareness efforts aimed at acquiring new customers. Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to a $1.1 million increase in allocated overhead costs as a result of an increase in overall costs necessary to support the growth of the business and related infrastructure and a $0.8 million increase in travel related expenses reflecting the increase in headcount and marketing events. General and Administrative Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 39,971 $ 24,343 $ 15,628 64 % Percentage of revenue 34 % 31 % General and administrative expenses increased by $15.6 million , or 64% , for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $7.4 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount. Costs to support the growth of the business and related infrastructure increased $1.5 million which includes allocated overhead costs. The increase in general and administrative expenses also included a $6.2 million non-cash expense associated with our charitable contribution of a warrant to purchase 648,092 shares of common stock in June 2018 to the Tides Foundation. 55 Table of Contents Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income, Net Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 1,249 $ 371 $ 878 237 % Interest expense $ $ (702 ) $ 702 (100 )% Other income, net $ 1,032 $ 682 $ 350 51 % Interest income increased by $0.9 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to a higher cash and cash equivalents balance. Interest expense decreased by $0.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to interest incurred on our loan and security agreement, which was repaid in full in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . Other income, net increased by $0.4 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase in other income was primarily related to sublease income that we received prior to the lease expiring in fiscal 2019. 56 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the below referenced non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is that they exclude significant expenses that are required by GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by our management about which expenses are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit adjusted for stock-based compensation expense. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Gross profit $ 141,772 $ 100,568 $ 66,913 Add: Stock-based compensation 1,018 282 385 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 142,790 $ 100,850 $ 67,298 Gross margin 85 % 85 % 84 % Non-GAAP gross margin 86 % 86 % 85 % Non-GAAP Operating Loss and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as loss from operations plus our stock-based compensation expense, which includes non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (dollars in thousands) Loss from operations $ (55,559 ) $ (42,321 ) $ (38,316 ) Add: Stock-based compensation (1) 27,205 25,295 18,152 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (28,354 ) $ (17,026 ) $ (20,164 ) Operating margin (33 )% (36 )% (48 )% Non-GAAP operating margin (17 )% (14 )% (25 )% 57 Table of Contents ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss plus our stock-based compensation expense, which includes non-cash charitable contribution expense. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net loss $ (50,339 ) $ (40,741 ) $ (38,149 ) Add: Stock-based compensation (1) 27,205 25,295 18,152 Non-GAAP net loss $ (23,134 ) $ (15,446 ) $ (19,997 ) ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software costs. In addition to the reasons stated above, we believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash in excess of our capital investments in property and equipment to enhance the strength of our balance sheet and further invest in our business and potential strategic initiatives. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. We use free cash flow in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our liquidity, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to assess our liquidity. Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (173 ) $ (5,608 ) $ (11,836 ) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (5,174 ) (3,730 ) (822 ) Capitalized internal-use software costs (389 ) Free cash flow $ (5,347 ) $ (9,727 ) $ (12,658 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (232,070 ) $ (4,119 ) $ (822 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 225,944 $ 93,599 $ 45,429 Quarterly Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited quarterly statements of operations data for each of the last eight quarters in the period ended January 31, 2020 . The information for each of these quarters has been prepared on the same basis as the audited annual financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in the opinion of management, includes all adjustments, which includes only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of the results of operations for these periods. This data should be read in conjunction 58 Table of Contents with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations that may be expected for any future period. Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 July 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 January 31, 2019 April 30, 2019 July 31, 2019 October 31, 2019 January 31, 2020 (in thousands) Revenue $ 25,020 $ 27,744 $ 31,229 $ 33,830 $ 37,314 $ 40,361 $ 42,750 $ 45,926 Cost of revenue (1) 3,885 3,912 4,599 4,859 5,486 6,106 6,634 6,353 Gross profit 21,135 23,832 26,630 28,971 31,828 34,255 36,116 39,573 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 7,719 7,804 14,578 8,757 10,906 11,635 12,619 13,851 Sales and marketing (1) 13,294 15,319 18,738 16,709 21,167 23,786 27,425 24,972 General and administrative (1) 7,116 13,672 9,264 9,919 12,484 13,215 12,765 12,506 Total operating expenses 28,129 36,795 42,580 35,385 44,557 48,636 52,809 51,329 Loss from operations (6,994 ) (12,963 ) (15,950 ) (6,414 ) (12,729 ) (14,381 ) (16,693 ) (11,756 ) Interest income 130 148 318 653 889 1,967 1,427 1,409 Other income (expense), net 389 326 372 (55 ) 21 80 245 (143 ) Loss before (provision for) benefit from income taxes (6,475 ) (12,489 ) (15,260 ) (5,816 ) (11,819 ) (12,334 ) (15,021 ) (10,490 ) (Provision for) benefit from income taxes (104 ) (91 ) (115 ) (391 ) (245 ) (236 ) (244 ) 50 Net loss $ (6,579 ) $ (12,580 ) $ (15,375 ) $ (6,207 ) $ (12,064 ) $ (12,570 ) $ (15,265 ) $ (10,440 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.32 ) $ (0.59 ) $ (0.71 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.17 ) $ (0.20 ) $ (0.14 ) ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense and non-cash charitable contribution expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 July 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 January 31, 2019 April 30, 2019 July 31, 2019 October 31, 2019 January 31, 2020 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 61 $ 70 $ 71 $ 80 $ 143 $ 327 $ 303 $ 245 Research and development 715 398 6,567 491 860 1,437 1,462 1,807 Sales and marketing 852 914 1,198 1,018 1,464 2,326 2,295 2,839 General and administrative (1) 1,529 7,364 2,340 1,627 2,345 3,143 3,287 2,922 Total $ 3,157 $ 8,746 $ 10,176 $ 3,216 $ 4,812 $ 7,233 $ 7,347 $ 7,813 ______________ 59 Table of Contents (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. All values from the statement of operations, expressed as percentage of revenue were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 July 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 January 31, 2019 April 30, 2019 July 31, 2019 October 31, 2019 January 31, 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue (1) 16 % 14 % 15 % 14 % 15 % 15 % 16 % 14 % Gross profit 84 % 86 % 85 % 86 % 85 % 85 % 84 % 86 % Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 31 % 28 % 47 % 26 % 29 % 29 % 30 % 30 % Sales and marketing (1) 53 % 55 % 60 % 49 % 57 % 59 % 64 % 54 % General and administrative (1) 28 % 49 % 30 % 29 % 33 % 33 % 30 % 27 % Total operating expenses 112 % 133 % 136 % 105 % 119 % 121 % 124 % 112 % Loss from operations (28 )% (47 )% (51 )% (19 )% (34 )% (36 )% (39 )% (26 )% Interest income 1 % 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % 5 % 3 % 3 % Other income (expense), net 2 % 1 % 1 % % % % 1 % % Loss before (provision for) benefit from income taxes (26 )% (45 )% (49 )% (17 )% (32 )% (31 )% (35 )% (23 )% (Provision for) benefit from income taxes % % % (1 )% (1 )% (1 )% (1 )% % Net loss (26 )% (45 )% (49 )% (18 )% (32 )% (31 )% (36 )% (23 )% ______________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Quarterly Revenue Trends Our quarterly revenue increased sequentially in each of the periods presented above due primarily to expansion within existing customers and increases in the number of new customers. Quarterly Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Trends Our quarterly cost of revenue has generally increased quarter-over-quarter in each period presented above primarily as a result of the increased cost of providing support and delivering our services to our expanding customer base. Our quarterly gross margins have fluctuated between 84% and 86% in each period presented. Quarterly gross margin have generally increased in fiscal 2020 as a result of our increased revenue, as well as our continued commitment to managing personnel expenses and costs related to our third-party hosting services. Quarterly Operating Expense Trends Excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expenses, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses have generally increased over the periods presented above as we increased 60 Table of Contents our headcount used to support growth and expansion in the business. Research and development expenses for the three months ended October 31, 2018 included an increase in stock-based compensation expense associated with transactions in which certain of our investors acquired outstanding common stock or Series FF redeemable convertible preferred stock from current or former employees at a purchase price greater than or equal to the estimated fair value at the time of the transactions. We have also experienced increased sales and marketing expenses associated with our annual PagerDuty Summit user conference in the third quarter of each fiscal year. In addition, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended July 31, 2018 included a $6.2 million non-cash expense associated with our charitable contribution of a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in June 2018 to the Tides Foundation (See Note 7, Common Stock and Stockholders Equity (Deficit) to our consolidated financial statements). Quarterly Other Income (Expense), Net Trends Other income (expense), net primarily consisted of foreign currency transaction gains and losses and sublease income related to our San Francisco lease prior to the lease expiring in fiscal 2019. Quarterly Non-GAAP Quarterly Financial Measures The following table reconciles loss from operations determined under GAAP to non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP operating margin. In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe non-GAAP operating loss and operating margin are useful in evaluating our operating performance. See Selected Consolidated Financial and Other Data-Non-GAAP Financial Measures for a description of the non-GAAP measures and their limitations as an analytical tool. Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 July 31, 2018 October 31, 2018 January 31, 2019 April 30, 2019 July 31, 2019 October 31, 2019 January 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands) Loss from operations $ (6,994 ) $ (12,963 ) $ (15,950 ) $ (6,414 ) $ (12,729 ) $ (14,381 ) $ (16,693 ) $ (11,756 ) Add: Stock-based compensation 3,157 8,746 10,176 3,216 4,812 7,233 7,347 7,813 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (3,837 ) $ (4,217 ) $ (5,774 ) $ (3,198 ) $ (7,917 ) $ (7,148 ) $ (9,346 ) $ (3,943 ) Operating margin (28 )% (47 )% (51 )% (19 )% (34 )% (36 )% (39 )% (26 )% Non-GAAP operating margin (15 )% (15 )% (18 )% (9 )% (21 )% (18 )% (22 )% (9 )% ______________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense above includes $6.2 million of non-cash charitable contribution expense in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through sales of our subscriptions and the net proceeds we have received from sales of equity securities and borrowings on our prior loan facilities. On April 15, 2019, upon the closing of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $213.7 million , after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions of $16.6 million and other issuance costs of $6.4 million . As of January 31, 2020 , our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents and investments totaling $351.4 million . We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash provided by sales of our subscriptions will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our subscription growth rate, subscription renewal activity, including the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we 61 Table of Contents may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition. A significant majority of our customers pay in advance for subscriptions. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from our deferred revenue, which is included in the liabilities section of our consolidated balance sheet. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of customer billings, which is recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of January 31, 2020 , we had deferred revenue of $92.6 million , of which $87.5 million was recorded as a current liability and expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented : Year Ended January 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (173 ) $ (5,608 ) $ (11,836 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (232,070 ) $ (4,119 ) $ (822 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 225,944 $ 93,599 $ 45,429 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collection from sales of subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses and hosting and software expenses. In the last several years, we have generated negative cash flows from operating activities and have supplemented working capital requirements through net proceeds from both private and public sales of equity securities. Cash used in operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 of $0.2 million primarily related to our net loss of $50.3 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $37.0 million and net cash inflows of $13.2 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $27.2 million , amortization of our deferred contract costs of $7.8 million , and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized implementation costs of $2.3 million . Changes in operating assets and liabilities reflected cash inflows from a $28.5 million increase in deferred revenue resulting from increased billings for subscriptions, a $3.9 million increase in accrued compensation primarily due to employee contributions on the ESPP and increased headcount, and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities. These amounts were partially offset by a $16.0 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings, a $3.6 million increase in accounts receivable due to timing of cash collections, and a $2.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to timing of payments made in advance for future services. Cash used in operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 of $5.6 million primarily related to our net loss of $40.7 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $32.9 million and net cash inflows of $2.2 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $19.1 million , expense on the warrant issued in conjunction with a charitable contribution of $6.2 million , amortization of our deferred contract costs of $4.5 million , and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment of $1.7 million . The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities related to a $25.9 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from increased billings for subscriptions, a $5.2 million increase in accrued compensation due to an increase in headcount, and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $3.3 million . These amounts were partially offset by a $15.5 million increase in accounts receivable, a $13.8 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings, 62 Table of Contents and an increase of $2.9 million in prepaid expenses and other assets related to prepayments made in advance for future services. Cash used in operating activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 of $11.8 million primarily related to our net loss of $38.1 million , adjusted for non-cash charges of $24.1 million and net cash inflows of $2.2 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $18.2 million , amortization of our deferred contract costs of $2.5 million , and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment of $1.3 million . The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities related to a $15.2 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from increased billings for subscriptions, a $2.9 million increase in accrued compensation due to an increase in headcount, and a net increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1.8 million . These amounts were partially offset by a $10.1 million increase in accounts receivable, a $5.7 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings, and an increase of $1.9 million in prepaid expenses and other assets related to prepayments made in advance for future services. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 of $232.1 million consisted of purchases of investments of $269.8 million and purchases of property and equipment of $5.2 million primarily to support additional office space for our San Francisco and Atlanta offices and purchases of computers for new employees. These costs were partially offset by proceeds from maturities of investments of $43.0 million . Cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 of $4.1 million consisted primarily of $2.5 million of leasehold improvements for our Toronto and San Francisco offices, $1.2 million in purchases of computers and related equipment for new employees, and $0.4 million of capitalized internal-use software costs. Cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 of $0.8 million was the result of purchases of property and equipment, of which a substantial majority related to purchases of computers and related equipment for new employees. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020 of $225.9 million consisted primarily of net proceeds from our IPO of $220.1 million after underwriting discounts and commissions, proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $7.2 million , and proceeds from our employee stock purchase plan of $4.1 million . This was partially offset by $5.9 million in payments related to costs associated with our IPO. Cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 of $93.6 million consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of Series D redeemable convertible preferred stock of $89.8 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants of $4.2 million , partially offset by $0.4 million in payments related to deferred offering expense associated with our initial public offering. Cash provided by financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 of $45.4 million consisted primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock of $43.6 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants of $2.0 million . In addition, during this period, we received net proceeds of $9.8 million from our Mezzanine Loan. We repaid the $10.0 million principal on our Mezzanine Loan in full in September 2017. 63 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at January 31, 2020 : Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease commitments $ 41,628 $ 6,196 $ 12,918 $ 13,559 $ 8,955 Purchase commitments 27,380 16,840 10,540 Total $ 69,008 $ 23,036 $ 23,458 $ 13,559 $ 8,955 The commitment amounts in the table above are associated with contracts that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. We have excluded the amount of the liability for uncertain tax benefits as of January 31, 2020 in the table above. As of January 31, 2020 , we had $4.1 million of uncertain tax benefits, including interest and penalties, related to uncertain tax positions. The timing of future cash outflows associated with our liabilities for uncertain tax benefits is highly uncertain. As such, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective tax authority. Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements of varying scope and terms pursuant to which we agree to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain officers and employees that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers, or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements, and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or consolidated statements of cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently have and, as of January 31, 2020 or during the periods presented, did not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies described below involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition 64 Table of Contents We generate revenue from sales of subscriptions to customers using our cloud-based platform. Our subscription arrangements do not provide customers with the right to take possession of the software supporting the cloud-based products and, as a result, are accounted for as service arrangements. Revenue is recognized when control of these services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services. Subscription revenue excludes sales and other indirect taxes. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer. Identification of the performance obligations in the contract. Determination of the transaction price. Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. Recognition of revenue when, or as, the Company satisfies a performance obligation Our subscription agreements typically have monthly or annual terms, and a small percentage have multi-year terms. Revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription generally beginning on the date that our platform is made available to a customer. Our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable. We typically bill for monthly subscriptions on a monthly basis and annually in advance for subscriptions with terms of one year or more. Deferred Contract Costs Deferred contract costs include sales commissions earned by our sales force which are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Sales commissions for initial contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit, determined to be four years. We determined the period of benefit by taking into consideration our customer contracts, technology, and other factors. Amounts anticipated to be recognized within one year of the balance sheet date are recorded as deferred contract costs, current, with the remaining portion recorded as deferred contract costs, noncurrent, on the consolidated balance sheets. Amortization expense of deferred contract costs is recorded as sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation expense related to stock-based transactions, including employee, consultant, and non-employee director stock option awards and restricted stock units (RSUs), is measured and recognized in the consolidated financial statements based on fair value. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the grant date using the Black Scholes option-pricing model. We estimate the fair value of RSUs at our stock price on the grant date. We recognize compensation expense for employee stock-based payment awards on a straight-line basis over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide services in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period of the award). We account for forfeitures as they occur. Our option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. The assumptions used in our option-pricing model represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions are estimated as follows: Expected volatility Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate. Since we do not have sufficient trading history of our common stock, we estimate the expected volatility of our stock options at the grant date by taking the average historical volatility of a group of comparable publicly traded companies over a period equal to the expected term of the options. 65 Table of Contents Expected term We determine the expected term based on the average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding using the simplified method, generally calculated as the midpoint of the stock options vesting term and contractual expiration period, as we do not have sufficient historical information to develop reasonable expectations about future exercise patterns and post-vesting employment termination behavior. Risk-free rate We use the U.S. Treasury yield for our risk-free interest rate that corresponds with the expected term. Expected dividend yield We utilize a dividend yield of zero, as we do not currently issue dividends, nor do we expect to do so in the future. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may have refinements to our estimates and assumptions, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Common Stock Prior to our IPO, the fair value of our common stock underlying our stock-based awards was historically determined by our board of directors, with input from management and contemporaneous third-party valuations. We believe that our board of directors has the relevant experience and expertise to determine the fair value of our common stock. Given the absence of a public trading market of our common stock prior to the IPO, and in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation , our board of directors exercised reasonable judgment and considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair value of our common stock at each grant date. These factors included: contemporaneous valuations of our common stock performed by independent third-party specialists; the prices, rights, preferences, and privileges of our redeemable convertible preferred stock relative to those of our common stock; the prices of common or preferred stock sold to third-party investors by us and in secondary transactions or repurchased by us in arms-length transactions; lack of marketability of our common stock; our actual operating and financial performance; current business conditions and projections; hiring of key personnel and the experience of our management; the history of the company and the introduction of new services; our stage of development; likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an IPO, or a merger or acquisition of our company given prevailing market conditions; the market performance of comparable publicly traded companies; and the U.S. and global capital market conditions. In valuing our common stock, our board of directors determined the equity value of our business using various valuation methods including combinations of income and market approaches with input from management. The income approach estimates value based on the expectation of future cash flows that a company will generate. These future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a discount rate derived from an analysis of the 66 Table of Contents cost of capital of comparable publicly traded companies in our industry or similar business operations as of each valuation date and is adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in our cash flows. For each valuation, the equity value determined by the income and market approaches was then allocated to the common stock using either the option pricing method, or OPM, or a hybrid method. The hybrid method is a hybrid of the probability weighted expected return method, or PWERM, and OPM. The option pricing method is based on a binomial lattice model, which allows for the identification of a range of possible future outcomes, each with an associated probability. The OPM is appropriate to use when the range of possible future outcomes is difficult to predict and thus creates highly speculative forecasts. PWERM involves a forward-looking analysis of the possible future outcomes of the enterprise. This method is particularly useful when discrete future outcomes can be predicted at a relatively high confidence level with a probability distribution. Discrete future outcomes considered under the PWERM include an IPO, as well as non-IPO market-based outcomes. Determining the fair value of the enterprise using the PWERM requires us to develop assumptions and estimates for both the probability of an IPO liquidity event and stay private outcomes, as well as the values we expect those outcomes could yield. Our valuations prior to October 2018 were based on the OPM. Beginning in October 2018, we valued our common stock based on a hybrid method of the PWERM and the OPM. In addition, we also considered any secondary transactions involving our capital stock. In our evaluation of those transactions, we considered the facts and circumstances of each transaction to determine the extent to which they represented a fair value exchange. Factors considered include transaction volume, timing, whether the transactions occurred among willing and unrelated parties, and whether the transactions involved investors with access to our financial information. Application of these approaches involves the use of estimates, judgment, and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding our expected future revenue, expenses, and future cash flows, discount rates, market multiples, the selection of comparable companies, and the probability of possible future events. Changes in any or all of these estimates and assumptions or the relationships between those assumptions impact our valuations as of each valuation date and may have a material impact on the valuation of our common stock. Subsequent to the closing of our IPO, the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as reported on the date of grant. Future expense amounts for any particular period could be affected by changes in our assumptions or market conditions. Recently Accounting Pronouncements For further information on our recently adopted accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.