Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on March 19, 2021. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements above in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, impacts on our business and general economic conditions due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A below. The last day of our fiscal year is January 31. Our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31. Overview PagerDuty is a digital operations management platform that empowers the right action, when seconds matter. Our platform, which includes our auto remediation software, is the best way to manage urgent, mission-critical workand keep digital services always on. It sits at the center of a companys digital ecosystem ingesting signals and using machine learning and automation to automate real-time work, predict and avoid downtime. We enable teams to reduce outages, improve productivity and accelerate digital transformations. We collect data from virtually any software-enabled system or device and combine it with human response data, correlating and processing it to understand digital opportunities and issues that need to be addressed in real time. Using the worlds broadest integrations, event management, automated remediation and diagnostics, and human driven runbook automation, we bring together the right people with the right information so they can resolve issues and act on opportunities in minutes and seconds, not hours, days or even weeks like legacy solutions. Since our founding in 2009, we have expanded our capabilities from a single product focused on on-call management for technical teams to one that serves many roles across the company, delivering a real-time source of truth to security, customer service, and executive stakeholders alike. We have grown from an on-call tool into a full digital operations management platform, spanning incident response, on-call management, business visibility, advanced analytics, and AI Ops capabilities across automation and event management to reduce the noise, interruptions and redundant tasks from our customers lives. We have invested in developing the scalability, reliability, and security of our platform, allowing us to address the needs of even the largest and most demanding customers. We have spent years building deep product integrations to our platform, and our ecosystem now includes over 600 direct integrations to enable our customers to gather and correlate digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device. Those same integrations allow us to connect with popular collaboration tools and business applications, as well as all types of technology stacks to drive automation of work. Our platform is easy to adopt and scalable for businesses of all sizes. We generate revenue primarily from cloud-hosted subscription fees with the majority of our revenue from such arrangements. We also generate an immaterial amount of revenue from term license software subscription fees. We offer a three-tiered range of pricing plans aligned with our customers needs and the sophistication of their digital operations. In addition, our Rundeck automation offering is available on a term license software subscription basis. We also offer a freemium plan for less than five users to introduce new users to the platform. We have a land-and-expand business model that leads to 27 Table of Contents viral adoption of our products and subsequent expansion. Our online self-service model is the primary mechanism for landing new customers and enabling teams to get started without assistance. We complement our self-service model with high-velocity inside sales focused on small and medium businesses, a commercial team focused on mid-market customers, and a field sales team focused on enterprise customers. Our mid-market and enterprise customers account for the majority of our revenue today. These teams drive expansion to additional users, additional teams, and new use cases, as well as upsell premium functionality. COVID-19 Update In December 2019, a novel coronavirus and the resulting disease (COVID-19) was reported, and in January 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business continues to depend on certain developments including the duration and spread of the pandemic; government responses to the pandemic; the widespread availability and distribution of vaccines; impact on our customers and our sales cycles; industry or employee events; and effect on our partners and vendors, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. While our revenues, billings, and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model and the majority of our revenues are generated from annual subscriptions, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, along with the seasonality we historically experience, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods, if at all. In addition, while the majority of our revenues are generated from annual subscriptions, we have seen, and may continue to see, greater variability in the demand of our product from small and medium business customers. While we see risks associated with more highly impacted companies and industries, we are also seeing new interest from other organizations, driven by rapidly changing work and business environments. As workforces have transitioned to working from home in a distributed model, PagerDuty has become an increasingly critical service. The majority of our employees continue to work remotely in order to minimize the spread of COVID-19 among our employee base and comply with local regulations within the United States and internationally. As we continue to monitor the local regulations related to COVID-19, we have begun to release travel restrictions on business-related travel, allowing certain employees to travel on a voluntary basis. We have also extended our paid time off and sick leave benefits for employees directly impacted by COVID-19 or caring for children or a member of their household impacted by COVID-19. In addition, we have provided allowances to our employees to cover expenses related to transitioning to a work from home environment. We also continue to offer local employee assistance programs to employees if needed. These changes remain in effect and could extend into future quarters. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement to facilitate remote work is uncertain, but changes we have implemented have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure