Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on March 19, 2021. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements above in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, impacts on our business and general economic conditions due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors 24 Table of Contents included in Part II, Item 1A below. The last day of our fiscal year is January 31. Our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31. Overview PagerDuty is a digital operations management platform that empowers the right action, when seconds matter. Our platform, which includes our auto remediation software, is the best way to manage urgent, mission-critical workand keep digital services always on. It sits at the center of a companys digital ecosystem ingesting signals and using machine learning and automation to prevent and automate real-time work, predict and avoid downtime. We enable teams to reduce outages, improve productivity and accelerate digital transformations. We collect data from virtually any software-enabled system or device and combine it with human response data correlating and processing it to understand digital opportunities and issues that need to be addressed in real time. Using the worlds broadest integrations, event management, automated remediation and diagnostics, and human driven runbook automation, we bring together the right people with the right information so they can resolve issues and act on opportunities in minutes and seconds, not hours, days or even weeks like legacy solutions. Since our founding in 2009, we have expanded our capabilities from a single product focused on on-call management for technical teams to one that serves many roles across the company, delivering a real-time source of truth to security, customer service, and executive stakeholders alike. Growing from an on-call tool into a full digital operations management platform, spanning incident response, on-call management, business visibility, advanced analytics, and AI Ops capabilities across automation and event management to reduce the noise, interruptions and redundant tasks from our customers lives. We have invested in developing the scalability, reliability, and security of our platform, allowing us to address the needs of even the largest and most demanding customers. We have spent years building deep product integrations to our platform, and our ecosystem now includes over 560 direct integrations to enable our customers to gather and correlate digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device. Those same integrations allow PagerDuty to connect with popular collaboration tools and business applications, as well as all types of technology stacks to drive automation of work. Our platform is easy to adopt and scalable for businesses of all sizes. We generate revenue primarily from cloud-hosted subscription fees with the majority of our revenue from such arrangements. We also generate an immaterial amount of revenue from term license software subscription fees. We offer a three-tiered range of pricing plans aligned with our customers needs and the sophistication of their digital operations. In addition, our Rundeck automation offering is available on a term license software subscription basis. We also offer a freemium plan for less than five users to introduce new users to the platform. We have a land-and-expand business model that leads to viral adoption of our products and subsequent expansion. Our online self-service model is the primary mechanism for landing new customers and enabling teams to get started without assistance. We complement our self-service model with high-velocity inside sales focused on small and medium businesses, a commercial team focused on mid-market customers, and a field sales team focused on enterprise customers. Our mid-market and enterprise customers account for the majority of our revenue today. These teams drive expansion to additional users, additional teams, and new use cases, as well as upsell premium functionality. COVID-19 Update In December 2019, a novel coronavirus and the resulting disease (COVID-19) was reported, and in January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. In February 2020, the WHO raised its assessment of the COVID-19 threat from high to very high at a global level due to the continued increase in the number of cases and affected countries, and in March 2020, the WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business continues to depend on certain developments including the duration and spread of the pandemic; government responses to the pandemic; the widespread availability and distribution of vaccines; impact on our customers and our sales cycles; industry or employee events; and effect on our partners and vendors, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. While our revenues, billings, and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model 25 Table of Contents and the majority of our revenues are generated from annual subscriptions, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, along with the seasonality we historically experience, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods, if at all. In addition, while the majority of our revenues are generated from annual subscriptions, we have seen, and anticipate there may continue to be greater variability in the demand of our product from small and medium business customers. We also have experienced an increase in churn and a decline in the number of users that we believe to be associated with the impact of COVID-19, and may continue to see a decline in the number of users if our customers are required to make workforce reductions. Because of this, we have, and may continue to experience declines in customer demand, reduced customer spend or contract duration, and lengthened payment terms that could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, and overall financial performance in future periods. In March 2020, we temporarily closed all of our offices, transitioned our employees to work remotely, and implemented travel restrictions on all business-related travel. We have extended our paid time off and sick leave benefits for employees directly impacted by COVID-19 or caring for children or a member of their household impacted by COVID-19. In addition, we are providing allowances to our employees to cover expenses related to transitioning to a work from home environment. We also continue to offer local employee assistance programs to employees if needed. These changes remain in effect and could extend into future quarters. We have a limited history of remote working and it is difficult to measure and predict the medium and long-term impacts on productivity across our workforce, and the resulting types of continuing investments for, our employee base is uncertain. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain but changes we have implemented have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, and procedures. In addition, due to restrictions on travel and in-person meetings, we have converted Summit, our global customer conference series, to virtual events. We have also canceled or shifted other planned events to virtual-only experiences and may determine to alter, postpone or cancel additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. We have typically relied on marketing and promotional events such as Summit and other in-person conferences, events, and meetings to facilitate customer sign-ups and generate leads for potential customers, and we cannot predict whether virtual marketing events and phone or virtual sales interactions will be as successful as in-person events and meetings or, for how long, or the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to constrain our marketing, promotional, and sales activities. On March 27, 2020, the President of the United States signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) which includes several significant provisions for corporations, including modifications to the limitation on business interest expense and the usage of net operating losses, and a payment deferral of employer payroll taxes. We elected to defer the payment of employer payroll taxes in the nine months ended October 31, 2020. We are no longer deferring the payment of our employer payroll taxes, and expect to pay the amounts deferred during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2023. Refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors , for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. 26 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be a reasonable representation of our customer base for the applicable period of measurement, we rely on a third party to validate legal entities, which uses the best available data at period end, and therefore is subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, we are continually seeking to improve our methodology, which may result in future changes to our key metrics. Our key metrics include the results of Rundeck, to the extent applicable, beginning on the acquisition date of October 1, 2020. Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers using our platform, particularly those that have subscription agreements for more than $100,000 in annual recurring revenue, (ARR), are indicators of our market penetration, particularly within enterprise accounts, the growth of our business, and our potential future business opportunities. We define ARR as the annualized recurring value of all active contracts at the end of a reporting period. We define a customer as a separate legal entity, such as a company or an educational or government institution, that has an active subscription with us or one of our partners to access our platform. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, we treat the parent entity as the customer instead of treating each subsidiary or division as a separate customer. Increasing awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities, coupled with the fact that the world is always on and powered by increasingly complex technology, has expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all sizes across virtually all industries. Over time, enterprise and mid-market customers have constituted a greater share of our revenue. As of April 30, 2021 2020 Customers 13,918 13,060 Customers greater than $100,000 in ARR 458 348 Dollar-based Net Retention Rate We use dollar-based net retention rate to evaluate the long-term value of our customer relationships, since this metric reflects our ability to retain and expand the ARR from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares our ARR from the same set of customers across comparable periods. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period ARR. We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end, or Current Period ARR. Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of downgrades or churn over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the dollar-based net retention rate. The calculation of dollar-based net retention rate includes the Current Period ARR of Rundeck customers to the extent that they were PagerDuty customers as of 12 months prior to period end. Last 12 Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Dollar-based net retention rate for all customers 121 % 121 % 27 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from cloud-hosted software subscription fees with the majority of its revenue from such arrangements. We also generate an immaterial amount of revenue from term license software subscription fees. Our subscriptions are typically one year in duration but can range from monthly to multi-year. Subscription revenue is driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users per customer, and the level of subscription purchased. We generally invoice customers in advance in annual installments for subscriptions to our platform. For our cloud-hosted software subscriptions, we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period beginning on the date we grant access to our platform, assuming that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. For our term-license software subscriptions, we recognize license revenue upon delivery and software maintenance revenue ratably, typically beginning on the start of the contractual term of the arrangement. Due to the low complexity of implementation and integration of our platform with our customers existing infrastructure, revenue from professional services has been immaterial to date. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to providing our platform to customers, including personnel expenses for operations and global support, payments to our third-party cloud infrastructure providers for hosting our software, payment processing fees, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology, and other allocated overhead costs. We will continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and success organizations to expand the capability of our platform and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our offerings. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as our revenue fluctuates, and as a result of the timing and amount of investments to expand the capacity of our third-party cloud infrastructure providers and our continued efforts to enhance our platform support and customer success teams. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related expenses, allocated overhead costs for facilities, shared IT related expenses, including depreciation expense, and certain company-wide events and functions. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our engineering, product, and design teams. Additionally, research and development expenses include contractor fees, depreciation of equipment used in research and development activities, acquisition-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, costs of general marketing activities and promotional activities, travel related expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, allocated overhead costs, and bad debt expense. Sales commissions earned by our sales force that are considered incremental and recoverable 28 Table of Contents costs of obtaining a subscription with a customer are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be four years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar value and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and contractor fees for finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions. In addition, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel costs, such as legal, accounting, and other professional fees, hardware and software costs, certain tax, license and insurance-related expenses, acquisition-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. However, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term as we expect our investments to allow for improved efficiency for future growth in the business. Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and interest earned on our short-term investments which consist of U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and U.S. Government agency securities. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of contractual interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs on our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes (the Notes) due 2025. Refer to Note 9, Debt and Financing Arrangements for additional details. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net primarily consists of accretion income and amortization expense on our available-for-sale investments and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our net federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Revenue $ 63,591 $ 49,786 Cost of revenue (1) 10,418 6,963 Gross profit 53,173 42,823 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 20,599 15,014 Sales and marketing (1) 37,234 26,736 General and administrative (1) 16,578 13,673 Total operating expenses 74,411 55,423 Loss from operations (21,238) (12,600) Interest income 818 1,353 Interest expense (1,317) Other (expense) income, net (616) 19 Loss before provision for income taxes (22,353) (11,228) Provision for income taxes (205) (231) Net loss $ (22,558) $ (11,459) ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 676 $ 344 Research and development 4,440 2,183 Sales and marketing 3,954 2,285 General and administrative 4,542 3,496 Total $ 13,612 $ 8,308 30 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 16 14 Gross profit 84 % 86 % Operating expenses: Research and development 32 30 Sales and marketing 59 54 General and administrative 26 27 Total operating expenses 117 111 Loss from operations (33) (25) Interest income 1 3 Interest expense (2) Other (expense) income, net (1) Loss before provision for income taxes (35) (23) Provision for income taxes Net loss (36) % (23) % __________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 63,591 $ 49,786 $ 13,805 28 % Revenue increased by $13.8 million, or 28%, for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020. The increase in revenue was attributable to a combination of growth from both new and existing customers, including customers from the Rundeck acquisition. Growth from existing customers is attributable to both increases in the number of users and upsell of additional products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 10,418 $ 6,963 $ 3,455 50 % Gross margin 84 % 86 % Cost of revenue increased by $3.5 million, or 50%, primarily due to an increase of $2.3 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount and an increase of $0.5 million in hosting, software, and telecom costs, 31 Table of Contents and an increase of $0.4 million in outside services, which are related to the support of the continued growth of the business and related infrastructure. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 20,599 $ 15,014 $ 5,585 37 % Percentage of revenue 32 % 30 % Research and development expenses increased by $5.6 million, or 37%, for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in personnel expenses of $4.7 million as a result of increased headcount to support our continued investment in our platform and a $0.6 million increase in costs to support the growth of the business and related infrastructure, which includes allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 37,234 $ 26,736 $ 10,498 39 % Percentage of revenue 59 % 54 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $10.5 million, or 39%, for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $7.1 million in personnel expenses driven by headcount growth and amortization of deferred contract costs, an increase in marketing expenses of $2.3 million due to increased volume of marketing and advertising activities, an increase of $1.4 million in outside services due to a higher volume of activities to assist with the continued growth of the business, an increase of $0.6 million in costs to support the business and related infrastructure which includes allocated overhead costs, and an increase of $0.6 million in amortization of intangibles as a result of the Rundeck acquisition. This was partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in travel and other program related costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a decrease in bad debt expense of $0.4 million. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 16,578 $ 13,673 $ 2,905 21 % Percentage of revenue 26 % 27 % General and administrative expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 21%, for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020. The increase was driven by an increase of $2.7 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount, and an increase in outside services of $0.6 million due to a higher volume of activities to support the continued growth of the business. This was partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in costs to support the business and related infrastructure which includes allocated overhead costs. Interest Expense 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ 1,317 $ $ 1,317 N/A Interest expense increased by $1.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020, due to contractual interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs on the Notes. Interest Income and Other (Expense) Income, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 818 $ 1,353 $ (535) (40) % Other (expense) income, net $ (616) $ 19 $ (635) (3,342) % Interest income and other income decreased by $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the three months ended April 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2020, primarily due to lower interest rates on our cash, cash equivalent and investment balances in the current year. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the below referenced non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is that they exclude significant expenses that are required by GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by our management about which expenses are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. A 33 Table of Contents reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit adjusted for stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 53,173 $ 42,823 Add: Stock-based compensation 676 344 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 26 1 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 280 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 54,155 $ 43,168 Gross margin 84 % 86 % Non-GAAP gross margin 85 % 87 % Non-GAAP Operating Loss and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP operating loss as loss from operations plus our stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and acquisition-related expenses, which include transaction costs and acquisition-related retention payments, which are not necessarily reflective of operational performance during a given period. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (21,238) $ (12,600) Add: Stock-based compensation 13,612 8,308 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 681 150 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 875 Acquisition-related expenses 459 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (5,611) $ (4,142) Operating margin (33) % (25) % Non-GAAP operating margin (9) % (8) % 34 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss plus our stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes, amortization of debt issuance costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related expenses, which include transaction costs and acquisition-related retention payments, which are not necessarily reflective of operational performance during a given period, and acquisition-related tax benefit. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Net loss $ (22,558) $ (11,459) Add: Stock-based compensation 13,612 8,308 Amortization of debt issuance costs 438 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 681 150 Amortization of acquired intangibles assets 875 Acquisition-related expenses 459 Non-GAAP net loss $ (6,493) $ (3,001) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software costs. In addition to the reasons stated above, we believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash in excess of our capital investments in property and equipment to enhance the strength of our balance sheet and further invest in our business and potential strategic initiatives. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. We use free cash flow in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our liquidity, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to assess our liquidity. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,579 $ (185) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (927) (2,713) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (1,002) Free cash flow $ (350) $ (2,898) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (12,616) $ 13,818 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (2,096) $ 1,798 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through sales of our cloud-hosted software subscriptions, net proceeds we have received from sales of equity securities, and the issuance of our Notes. On April 15, 2019, upon the closing of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $213.7 million, after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions of $16.6 million and other issuance costs of $6.4 million. 35 Table of Contents On June 25, 2020, we issued $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The total net proceeds from the sale of the Notes, after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and debt issuance costs of $9.3 million, and purchases of the Capped Calls of $35.7 million, were $242.5 million. As of April 30, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents and investments totaling $557.0 million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash provided by sales of our subscriptions will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, our subscription growth rate, subscription renewal activity, including the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition. A significant majority of our customers pay in advance for our cloud-hosted and term license software subscriptions. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from our deferred revenue, which is included in the liabilities section of our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of customer billings, which is recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of April 30, 2021, we had deferred revenue of $126.1 million, of which $120.1 million was recorded as a current liability and expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented : Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,579 $ (185) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (12,616) $ 13,818 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (2,096) $ 1,798 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collection from sales of our cloud-hosted and term license software subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses and hosting and software expenses. In the last several years, we have had periods in which we generated negative cash flows from operating activities and have supplemented working capital requirements through net proceeds from both private and public sales of equity securities and issuance of the Notes. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $1.6 million primarily related to our net loss of $22.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $21.2 million and net cash inflows of $3.0 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $13.6 million, amortization of our deferred contract costs of $3.3 million, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, capitalized implementation costs, and acquired intangible assets of $2.0 million, and non-cash lease expense of $1.1 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities reflected cash inflows from a $17.4 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash collections. This was partially offset by outflows from a $4.4 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, a $3.9 million decrease in deferred revenue due to timing of renewals, a $3.7 million increase in deferred contract costs due to 36 Table of Contents commissions paid on new bookings in line with revenue growth, a $1.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to timing of payments made in advance for future services, and $1.1 million in payments for operating lease liabilities. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2020 of $0.2 million primarily related to our net loss of $11.5 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $13.6 million and net cash outflows of $2.3 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $8.3 million, amortization of our deferred contract costs of $2.4 million, non-cash lease expense of $1.1 million and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment of $1.0 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities reflected cash outflows from a $2.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to timing of payments made in advance for future services, a $2.9 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings in line with revenue growth, $1.0 million in payments for operating lease liabilities, and a $0.4 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities. These amounts were partially offset by inflows from a $3.9 million increase in deferred revenue resulting primarily from increased billings for subscriptions, and a $1.0 million increase in accrued compensation primarily due to employee contributions for the ESPP and increased headcount. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $12.6 million consisted of purchases of available-for-sale investments of $77.5 million, capitalization of internal-use software of $1.0 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $0.9 million primarily for purchases of computers for new employees and to support office space for our San Francisco office. This was partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $67.0 million. Cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2020 of $13.8 million consisted of proceeds from maturities and sales of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investments of $48.7 million. This was partially offset by $32.1 million of purchases of available-for-sale investments and purchases of property and equipment of $2.7 million primarily to support additional office space for our Atlanta office and purchases of computers for new employees. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $2.1 million consisted of $4.9 million in employee payroll taxes paid related to vesting of restricted stock units. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $2.8 million from the exercise of stock options. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2020 of $1.8 million consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes during the three months ended April 30, 2021 to our contractual obligations and other commitments, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 filed with the SEC on March 19, 2021. For further information on our commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies , in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements of varying scope and terms pursuant to which we agree to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain officers and employees that will require us, among other 37 Table of Contents things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers, or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements, and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or consolidated statements of cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not currently have and, as of April 30, 2021 or during the periods presented, did not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In the preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates. Other than as set forth below, there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 filed with the SEC on March 19, 2021, that had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards, including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance stock units (PSUs), based on the estimated fair value of the award on the grant date. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options issued to employees on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which is impacted by the estimated fair value of the Companys common stock, as well as certain assumptions including the expected volatility over the term of the option awards, the expected term of the awards, risk-free interest rates and the expected dividend yield. Assumptions and estimates used in the determination of the fair value of stock options are as follows: Expected volatility Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate. Since the Company does not have sufficient trading history for its common stock, it estimates the expected volatility of its stock options by taking the average historical volatility of a group of comparable publicly traded companies over a period equal to the expected life of the options. Expected term The Company determines the expected term based on the average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding, generally calculated as the midpoint of the stock options vesting term and contractual expiration period, as the Company does not have sufficient historical information to develop reasonable expectations about future exercise patterns and post-vesting employment termination behavior. Risk-free rate The Company uses the U.S. Treasury yield for its risk-free interest rate that corresponds with the expected term. Expected dividend yield The Company utilizes a dividend yield of zero, as it does not currently issue dividends and does not expect to in the future. The Company estimates the fair value of RSUs and PSUs at our stock price on the grant date. The Company estimates the fair value of shares to be issued under the ESPP on the first day of the offering period using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is impacted by the estimated fair value of the Companys 38 Table of Contents common stock, as well as certain assumptions including the expected volatility over the term of the offering period, the expected term of the awards, risk-free interest rates and the expected dividend yield. Assumptions used in the determination of the fair value of the ESPP are the same as those used in the determination of the fair value of our stock options. The Company generally recognizes compensation expense for employee stock-based payment awards on a straight-line basis over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide services in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period of the award), with the exception of PSUs which are recognized using the accelerated attribution method and based on managements judgment around the probability of achievement of a performance condition. The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur. The fair value of each non-employee stock option is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and is not remeasured over the vesting term. Assumptions used in valuing non-employee stock options are generally consistent with those used for employee stock options with the exception that the expected term is over the contractual life. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For further information on our recently adopted accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" , in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.