Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements above in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report. The last day of our fiscal year is January 31. Our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31. Overview PagerDuty is a digital operations management platform that manages urgent and mission critical work for a modern, digital enterprise. We empower teams to respond rapidly to incidents to resolve or avoid customer issues, reduce noise, predict and avoid performance degradation, improve productivity, and accelerate digital transformation. Today, nearly every business is a digital business. As such, organizations are under pressure to enhance their digital operations in order to meet escalating customer expectations, resolve incidents proactively and free up time for innovation projects. This means critical, time sensitive, and unpredictable work needs to be detected and orchestrated. We collect data and digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device and leverage powerful machine learning to correlate, process, and predict opportunities and issues. Using incident response, event management, and automation, we bring together the right people with the right information so they can resolve issues and act on opportunities in minutes or seconds from wherever they are. Since our founding in 2009, we have expanded our capabilities from a single product focused on on-call management for developers to a multi-product platform that crosses silos into IT operations, security, customer service, and executive stakeholder roles across the organization. We have evolved from an on-call tool into the platform for digital operations, which resides at the center of a companys technology ecosystem. We have spent more than a decade building deep product integrations to our platform, and our ecosystem now includes over 700 direct integrations to enable our customers to gather and correlate digital signals from virtually any software-enabled system or device. This allows technical teams to collect digital signals from any system or platform in their environment, and without the effects of context switching. Those same integrations connect with popular collaboration tools and business applications, as well as all types of technology stacks to drive automation of work. We generate revenue primarily from cloud-hosted subscription fees. We also generate revenue from term-license software subscription fees. We have a land-and-expand business model that leads to viral adoption of our products and subsequent expansion. Our online self-service model is the primary mechanism for landing new customers and enabling teams to get started without assistance. We complement our self-service model with high-velocity inside sales focused on small and medium businesses, a commercial team focused on mid-market customers, and a field sales team focused on enterprise customers. Our mid-market and enterprise customers account for the majority of our revenue today. These teams drive expansion to additional users, new use cases, and add-on products, as well as upsell to higher value plans. Macroeconomic Environment Our business and financial performance may be subject to the effects of the worldwide macroeconomic conditions, including, but not limited to global inflation and the rise in interest rates, existing and new laws and regulations, recession or economic downturn globally or in the jurisdictions in which we do business, the COVID-19 pandemic, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, and recent bank failures. 24 Table of Contents We continuously monitor geopolitical conflicts around the world and their effects on our business. While we do not believe the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict will have a material impact on our business and results of operations, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted if the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues or worsens, leading to greater global economic disruptions and uncertainty. Our customers in Russia represented an immaterial portion of our net assets and total consolidated revenue both as of and for the three months ended April 30, 2023 and January 31, 2023. We will continue to monitor the direct and indirect impacts of these or similar circumstances on our business and financial results. For additional information on the potential impact of macroeconomic conditions on our business, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. 25 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be a reasonable representation of our customer base for the applicable period of measurement, we rely on a third party to validate legal entities, which uses the best available data at period end, and therefore is subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, we are continually seeking to improve our methodology, which may result in future changes to our key metrics. Our key metrics include the results of Catalytic, Inc. (Catalytic) to the extent applicable, beginning on the acquisition date of March 8, 2022. Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers using our platform, particularly those that have subscription agreements for more than $100,000 in annual recurring revenue (ARR), are indicators of our market penetration, particularly within enterprise accounts, the growth of our business, and our potential future business opportunities. We define ARR as the annualized recurring value of all active contracts at the end of a reporting period. We define a customer as a separate legal entity, such as a company or an educational or government institution, that has an active subscription with us or one of our partners to access our platform. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, we treat the parent entity as the customer instead of treating each subsidiary or division as a separate customer. Increasing awareness of our platform and its broad range of capabilities, coupled with the fact that the world is always on and powered by increasingly complex technology, has expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all sizes across virtually all industries. Over time, enterprise and mid-market customers have constituted a greater share of our revenue. As of April 30, 2023 2022 Customers 15,089 15,040 Customers greater than $100,000 in ARR 764 655 Dollar-based Net Retention Rate We use dollar-based net retention rate to evaluate the long-term value of our customer relationships, since this metric reflects our ability to retain and expand the ARR from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares our ARR from the same set of customers across comparable periods. We calculate dollar-based net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end (Prior Period ARR). We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end (Current Period ARR). Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of downgrades or churn over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the dollar-based net retention rate. The calculation of dollar-based net retention rate includes the Current Period ARR of Catalytic customers to the extent that they were PagerDuty customers as of 12 months prior to period end. Last 12 Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Dollar-based net retention rate for all customers 116 % 126 % 26 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from cloud-hosted software subscription fees with the majority of our revenue from such arrangements. We also generate revenue from term-license software subscription fees. Our subscriptions are typically one year in duration but can range from monthly to multi-year. Subscription fees are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of users per customer, and the level of subscription purchased. We generally invoice customers in advance in annual installments for subscriptions to our software. Revenue related to our cloud-hosted software subscriptions is recognized ratably over the related contractual term beginning on the date that our platform is made available to a customer. For our term-license software subscriptions, we recognize license revenue upon delivery and software maintenance revenue ratably, typically beginning on the start of the contractual term of the arrangement. Due to the low complexity of implementation and integration of our platform with our customers existing infrastructure, revenue from professional services has been immaterial to date. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to providing our platform to customers, including personnel expenses for operations and global support, payments to our third-party cloud infrastructure providers for hosting our software, payment processing fees, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology, and other allocated overhead costs. We will continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and success organizations to expand the capability of our platform and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our offerings. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as our revenue fluctuates, and as a result of the timing and amount of investments to expand the capacity of our third-party cloud infrastructure providers and our continued efforts to enhance our platform support and customer success teams. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related expenses, allocated overhead costs for facilities, shared IT related expenses, including depreciation expense, and certain company-wide events and functions. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our engineering, product, and design teams. Additionally, research and development expenses include contractor fees, depreciation of equipment used in research and development activities, acquisition-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, costs of general marketing activities and promotional activities, travel related expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, allocated overhead costs, and bad debt expense. Sales commissions earned by our sales force that are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a subscription with a customer are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the 27 Table of Contents expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be four years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar value and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and contractor fees for finance, legal, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions. In addition, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel costs, such as legal, accounting, and other professional fees, hardware and software costs, certain tax, license and insurance-related expenses, acquisition-related expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar value as our business grows. However, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term as we expect our investments to allow for improved efficiency for future growth in the business. Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and interest earned on our short-term investments which consist of U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and U.S. Government agency securities. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of contractual interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs on our 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the Notes). Refer to Note 9, Debt and Financing Arrangements for additional details. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of accretion income and amortization expense on our available-for-sale investments and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Benefit from Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our net federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Benefit from income taxes also includes the benefit associated with the reduction in our valuation allowance from the increase in the deferred tax liability associated with acquired intangible assets from our acquisition during the three months ended April 30, 2022. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue $ 103,246 $ 85,371 Cost of revenue(1) 17,936 15,716 Gross profit 85,310 69,655 Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 33,508 31,289 Sales and marketing(1) 43,801 45,552 General and administrative(1) 23,801 25,271 Total operating expenses 101,110 102,112 Loss from operations (15,800) (32,457) Interest income 3,123 548 Interest expense (1,334) (1,325) Other income (expense), net 1,067 (790) Loss before benefit from income taxes (12,944) (34,024) Benefit from income taxes 106 1,204 Net loss $ (12,838) $ (32,820) Net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interest (620) Net loss attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. $ (12,218) $ (32,820) ______________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,876 $ 1,224 Research and development 10,101 8,675 Sales and marketing 5,951 6,381 General and administrative 9,617 8,629 Total $ 27,545 $ 24,909 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 17 18 Gross profit 83 % 82 % Operating expenses: Research and development 32 37 Sales and marketing 42 53 General and administrative 23 30 Total operating expenses 98 120 Loss from operations (15) (38) Interest income 3 1 Interest expense (1) (2) Other income (expense), net 1 (1) Loss before benefit from income taxes (13) (40) Benefit from income taxes 1 Net loss (12) (38) Net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interest (1) % Net loss attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. (12) % (38) % __________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 103,246 $ 85,371 $ 17,875 21 % Revenue increased by $17.9 million, or 21%, for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022. The increase in revenue was attributable to a combination of growth from both new and existing customers. Growth from existing customers was attributable to both increases in the number of users and upsell of additional products and services. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 17,936 $ 15,716 $ 2,220 14 % Gross margin 83 % 82 % 30 Table of Contents Cost of revenue increased by $2.2 million, or 14%, for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $1.4 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount and salaries and an increase of $0.9 million in amortization of acquired intangible assets, primarily related to the acquisition of Catalytic. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 33,508 $ 31,289 $ 2,219 7 % Percentage of revenue 32 % 37 % Research and development expenses increased by $2.2 million, or 7%, for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in personnel expenses of $3.5 million as a result of increased headcount and salaries to support our continued investment in our platform, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in the impairment charge related to software development not placed in service in the three months ended April 30, 2022. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 43,801 $ 45,552 $ (1,751) (4) % Percentage of revenue 42 % 53 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $1.8 million, or 4%, for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $0.9 million in costs to support the business and related infrastructure, which included allocated overhead costs, due to lower headcount as a result of the restructuring event and a decrease of $0.7 million in travel and other program related costs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 23,801 $ 25,271 $ (1,470) (6) % Percentage of revenue 23 % 30 % General and administrative expenses decreased by $1.5 million, or 6%, for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022. The decrease was driven by a decrease of $2.2 million in outside services related to transaction costs for the acquisition of Catalytic in the prior year and a decrease of $0.3 million in travel and other program related costs. This was partially offset by an increase of $1.4 million in personnel expenses as a result of increased headcount and salaries. Interest Expense 31 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ 1,334 $ 1,325 $ 9 1 % Interest expense was consistent for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022 and related to contractual interest and amortization of debt issuance costs for the Notes. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 3,123 $ 548 $ 2,575 470 % Other income (expense), net $ 1,067 $ (790) $ 1,857 235 % Interest income increased by $2.6 million and other income, net increased by $1.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates and accretion on our cash, cash equivalent and investment balances in the current year. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the below referenced non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their U.S. GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is that they exclude significant expenses that are required by U.S. GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by our management about which expenses are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer taxes related to employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and restructuring costs. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue. 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 85,310 $ 69,655 Add: Stock-based compensation 1,876 1,224 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 72 7 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 2,087 1,209 Restructuring costs 137 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 89,482 $ 72,095 Gross margin 83 % 82 % Non-GAAP gross margin 87 % 84 % Non-GAAP Operating Income (Loss) and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP operating income (loss) as income (loss) from operations excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer taxes related to employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related expenses, which include transaction costs, acquisition-related retention payments and asset impairment, and restructuring costs, which are not necessarily reflective of operational performance during a given period. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating income (loss) as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (15,800) $ (32,457) Add: Stock-based compensation 27,545 24,909 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 1,197 652 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 2,806 1,842 Acquisition-related expenses 161 2,753 Restructuring costs 144 Non-GAAP operating income (loss) $ 16,053 $ (2,301) Operating margin (15) % (38) % Non-GAAP operating margin 16 % (3) % Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. We define non-GAAP net income (loss) attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. as net income (loss) attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer taxes related to employee stock transactions, amortization of debt issuance costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related expenses, which include transaction costs, acquisition-related retention payments and asset impairment, restructuring costs, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable, which are not necessarily reflective of operational performance during a given period,. 33 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net loss attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. $ (12,218) $ (32,820) Add (Less): Stock-based compensation 27,545 24,909 Employer taxes related to employee stock transactions 1,197 652 Amortization of debt issuance costs 455 447 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 2,806 1,842 Acquisition-related expenses 161 2,753 Restructuring costs 144 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (792) (1,330) Non-GAAP net income (loss) attributable to PagerDuty, Inc. $ 19,298 $ (3,547) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalization of internal-use software costs. In addition to the reasons stated above, we believe that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash in excess of our capital investments in property and equipment in order to enhance the strength of our balance sheet and further invest in our business and potential strategic initiatives. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. We use free cash flow in conjunction with traditional U.S. GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our liquidity, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts and to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to assess its liquidity. There are a number of limitations related to the use of free cash flow as compared to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, including that free cash flow includes capital expenditures, the benefits of which are realized in periods subsequent to those when expenditures are made. Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 22,152 $ (2,985) Less: Purchases of property and equipment (235) (2,078) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (1,072) (772) Free cash flow $ 20,845 $ (5,835) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 8,563 $ (70,357) Net cash used in financing activities $ (4,069) $ (2,584) Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through sales of our cloud-hosted software subscriptions, net proceeds we have received from sales of equity securities, and the issuance of the Notes. On April 15, 2019, upon the closing of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $213.7 million, after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions of $16.6 million and other issuance costs of $6.4 million. On June 25, 2020, we issued $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The total net proceeds from the sale of 34 Table of Contents the Notes, after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and debt issuance costs of $9.3 million, and purchases of the Capped Calls of $35.7 million, were $242.5 million. As of April 30, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents and investments totaling $495.1 million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash provided by sales of our subscriptions will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations, through a combination of cash flows from operating activities and available cash and short-term investment balances. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the effects of the worldwide macroeconomic conditions, including but not limited to, global inflation and the rise in interest rates, existing and new laws and regulations, recession or economic downturn globally or in the jurisdictions in which we do business, ongoing geopolitical conflict in Ukraine and other areas of the world, the COVID-19 pandemic, bank failures, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, our subscription growth rate, subscription renewal activity, including the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations, and financial condition. A significant majority of our customers pay in advance for our cloud-hosted and term-license software subscriptions. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from our deferred revenue, which is included in the liabilities section of our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of customer billings, which is recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of April 30, 2023, we had deferred revenue of $201.8 million, of which $197.4 million was recorded as a current liability and expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 22,152 $ (2,985) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 8,563 $ (70,357) Net cash used in financing activities $ (4,069) $ (2,584) Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collection from sales of our cloud-hosted and term license software subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses and hosting and software expenses. In the last several years, we have had periods in which we generated negative cash flows from operating activities and have supplemented working capital requirements through net proceeds from both private and public sales of equity securities and issuance of the Notes. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 of $22.2 million primarily related to our net loss of $12.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges/benefits of $38.0 million and net cash outflows of $3.0 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges/benefits consisted of stock-based compensation of $27.5 million, amortization of our deferred contract costs of $5.0 million, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, capitalized implementation costs, and acquired intangible assets of $4.7 million, non-cash lease expense of $1.2 million, other benefits of $0.9 million, which consist primarily 35 Table of Contents of accretion on investments and bad debt expense, and amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.5 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities reflected cash outflows from a $18.7 million decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and accrued compensation, a $7.2 million decrease in deferred revenue resulting from decreased billings for subscriptions, a $3.4 million increase in deferred contract costs due to commissions paid on new bookings in line with revenue growth, a $2.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets related to timing of payments made in advance for future services, and $1.5 million in payments for operating lease liabilities. These amounts were offset by a $30.0 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash collections. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 of $8.6 million consisted primarily of proceeds from maturities of investments of $49.0 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale investments of $39.1 million, capitalization of internal-use software of $1.1 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $0.2 million primarily for purchases of computers for new employees. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 of $4.1 million consisted of $8.8 million in employee payroll taxes paid related to vesting of restricted stock units, offset by proceeds of $4.8 million from the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes during the three months ended April 30, 2023 to our contractual obligations and other commitments, as disclosed in our Annual Report. For further information on our commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies in the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Form 10-Q. Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we may agree to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. As permitted under Delaware law, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain officers and employees that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers, or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements, and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or consolidated statements of cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies described in Part II, Item 7 in our Annual Report, that had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. 36 Table of Contents