Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsMacroeconomic Trends. Our Platforms We have built four principal software platforms: Gotham, Foundry, Apollo, and AIP. Our software platforms provide the critical infrastructure needed to integrate our customers data and operations and run their software in virtually any environment. The vertically integrated nature of these platforms allows users of varying technical abilities to collaborate effectively in our platforms. Data engineers can integrate new data sources, analysts can clean and transform data, data scientists can write models, business users can conduct daily workflows, and senior leaders can make critical decisions. With AIP, trusted data from relevant sources can be integrated into business logic, machine-language models, optimizers, and other computations spread across varying environments to power enterprise and government processes and help drive critical decisions. Customers may bundle these platforms together as a single ecosystem. Data, analyses, decisions, and the metadata around each are secured with fine-grained access controls that propagate from source data to shared analyses. Each platform is comprised of user-facing applications that may be targeted to the specific industries and sectors in which they are used. Despite their differences, Gotham and Foundry both serve as central operating systems for our customers. While they vary in specific functionality, they align in approach. AIP provides an integrated architecture to Gotham and Foundry that can bring AI to every decision. These platforms, backed by Apollo, can be deployed in almost any environment. Similarly, customers can now use Apollo to enable continuous deployment, configuration management, and central software operations management across almost any environment for their own software products. Gotham Gotham enables users to identify patterns hidden deep within datasets, ranging from signals intelligence sources to reports from confidential informants. It also facilitates the hand-off between analysts and operational users, helping operators plan and execute real-world responses to threats that have been identified within the platform. Gotham is now used broadly across government functions. Foundry Foundry transforms the ways organizations operate by creating a central operating system for their data. Individual users can integrate and analyze the data they need in one place. The speed with which users can experiment and test new ideas is what makes the software stick. Data projects often fail because the steps and methods used to build data pipelines are difficult to understand and recreate. We built Foundrys backend to solve the root of this problem. The platforms graphical interface does the rest, allowing users to track and trace their pipelines so they know what the rows and columns in their tables represent and why they are there. All of our commercial customers now use it, as do several of our government customers. AIP AIP enables responsible AI-advantage across the enterprise and government by using primary, core components built to effectively activate LLMs and other AI within any organization. It provides unified access to open-source, self-hosted, and commercially available LLMs that can transform structured and unstructured data into LLM-understandable objects and can 5 Table of Contents turn organizations actions and processes into tools for humans and LLM-driven agents. AIP can allow organizations to power operational use of AI and LLMs with interfaces for decision making, feedback, and safe hand-off among AI agents and human operators with wide-spectrum security and audit controls, which allow for granular control over model usage and integrated human review checkpoints throughout the workflows. AIP is seamlessly bundled with existing Palantir offerings such as the Foundry, Gotham, and Apollo platforms. Apollo We have always prioritized meeting our customers wherever they need us most. We originally built Apollo to enable the continuous delivery of our software wherever our customers are: in the cloud, on-premises, or even more rugged environments. Today, Apollo enables the rapid, secure delivery of our software and updates across our business, and also enables our customers to securely deploy their own software in virtually any environment. Apollo provides a single control layer to coordinate ongoing delivery of new features, security updates, and platform configurations. Our Customers We work with many of the worlds leading government and commercial institutions. As of December 31, 2024, we had 711 customers. Our software is currently used across approximately 90 industries around the world. It is applied to a variety of use cases by users across various business functions and levels of organizations, including by utility operations analysts, automotive manufacturing workers, oil and gas technicians and operators, and pharmaceutical researchers in the United States; supply-chain managers in South Korea; public health administrators in the United Kingdom and the United States; and special forces personnel and military officials in the United States and abroad. Of the $2.9 billion in revenue that we generated in 2024, 55% came from customers in the government segment, and 45% came from customers in the commercial segment. Our business continues to have a global presence. In 2024, we earned 66% of our revenue from customers in the United States, and 34% from those abroad. The average revenue for our top twenty customers during the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2024 was $64.6 million, and is up from 2023, when the average revenue from our top twenty customers during the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was $54.6 million, demonstrating our expanding relationships with existing customers. Sales and Marketing Our approach to sales and marketing is built around discussions with existing and prospective customers in order to understand the principal challenges our customers face and identify ways in which our software platforms can provide long-term value and results. We continue to evaluate and refine our sales and marketing approach as we develop relationships with existing and prospective customers. For example, beginning in 2023, we introduced AIP bootcamps to the initial stages of our customer acquisition process, which helped to accelerate these discussions and provide an opportunity for our customers to experience our platforms through their own use cases in days. Customer Acquisition Our customer acquisition strategy generally targets large-scale, hard-to-execute opportunities at large government and commercial institutions. The high installation costs, high failure risks, complexity of data environments, and the long sales cycles associated with these opportunities raise the barriers to entry for competition. The larger, more complex, and more technologically demanding the problem, the more likely we are to succeed. Additionally, our focus in the short term remains making our principal software platforms available to an increasingly broad swath of our potential market. We believe that every institution faces challenges that our platforms and products were designed to address. Across both the public and private sectors, there is a history of failures when investing in new technologies. One U.S. military department spent more than $1 billion building an enterprise resource planning system from scratch. The system was never delivered, and the project was terminated. Many of our customers have had similar experiences investing millions even billions of dollars in digital transformation projects, enterprise data warehouses, and digital twin initiatives that never really worked. These failures have made both software buyers and vendors highly risk-averse. Institutions often doubt that any vendor can implement a working solution and are unwilling to invest. On the other hand, smaller technology companies are often unable to 6 Table of Contents compete for complex, large-scale opportunities because installation costs and the risks of failure are too high, and the sales cycles too long. These are precisely the opportunities we target. Rather than reject projects with risky and resource intensive installation requirements, we actively seek them out. There are a number of sales and marketing strategies that have accelerated our ability to acquire customers in recent years: Expansion of Access to Platforms The speed with which our platforms can be deployed has significantly expanded the range of potential customers with which we plan on partnering over the long term. During 2023, we introduced AIP bootcamps, which allow us to deliver real workflows on actual customer data in days. We anticipate that our reach among an increasingly broad set of customers, in both the commercial and government sectors, will accelerate moving forward, aided by our sales and marketing approaches, including AIP bootcamps and other pilots. Additionally, in 2024, we introduced Developer Tier, offering limited access to Foundry and AIP in the United States and select countries. This expansion allows developers to explore, innovate, and develop without significant upfront enterprise costs. Our proximity to a variety of businesses and the industries in which they are operating has enhanced, and is expected to continue enhancing, our own product and business development efforts, as we continue expanding access to our platforms to the broadest possible set of customers. We believe that, as these new partners grow, we will grow with them. Direct Sales Force We have invested and may continue to invest in an account-based sales force to identify and capture new customers and opportunities. We believe that our decision to build our sales force in recent years has resulted in multiple new customers, and the broadening and expansion of our commercial customer base and relationships with leading government agencies around the world. Sector and Industry Operating Systems In addition to supporting individual institutions, our platforms have become central operating systems for entire industries and sectors. We are developing industry operating systems to help companies and government agencies manage operations across their entire organizations. These operating systems allow our software to be distributed at scale to institutions within given industries. We have and are continuing to develop partnerships in industries such as airline, insurance, healthcare, automotive, security and risk management, and government, which we anticipate will have a significant impact on our business moving forward. U.S. Government We continue to believe we are uniquely positioned to provide commercially available software to the U.S. federal government. Our government customers remain a meaningful source of revenue for our business. We intend to capture an even greater share of U.S. federal government spending on software systems. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewOur Customers for a discussion of the terms of our government contracts. Channel Sales & Cloud Partnerships We have entered into, and continue to explore the development of, partnerships for specific industries and sectors by partnering closely with leading providers of public, private, and hybrid cloud services, which have relationships with essentially every major enterprise in the world and have large, existing sales forces. These cloud partnerships emerged as an extension of the large computing requirements for our platforms and the migration towards the cloud as the hosting environment of choice for many customers. The existing footprint of these providers provides us with access to their large customer base and expands our distribution capabilities. We have also continued to explore the establishment of channel sales relationships and similar alliances with public and private organizations, opening a path for us to partner with varying providers, including smaller technology providers. 7 Table of Contents Joint Ventures & New Business Partnerships We intend to continue to form joint ventures and new business partnerships, where we believe specific industries or sectors require a partner and additional investment in order to realize the full potential of our platforms. For example, we, through Palantir Technologies Japan KK, entered into a strategic global partnership with Fujitsu Limited through which the parties will incorporate the capabilities of Foundry and AIP as a key element in the data infrastructure for Fujitsu Uvance, a portfolio of global solutions that address business challenges and solve societal issues. Account Growth There are a number of sales and marketing strategies that we use to drive revenue growth at an account. These strategies include (i) creating new ecosystem partnerships to extend the platform beyond the customers four walls into the operations of its partners and suppliers, (ii) selling additional productized cross-industry software capabilities, and (iii) selling strategic implementations of our software against specific use cases, which deliver competitive differentiation. Our sales and marketing strategies allow us to scale existing customer contracts horizontally to include additional divisions or functions within a single institution and vertically to include additional users and user groups. In tackling the customers most pressing and challenging problems first, we establish the trust needed to expand platform usage across the full enterprise. Research and Development We believe that in order to fully address the most complex and valuable challenges that our customers face, we must experience and understand their problems firsthand. To do so, we embed with our users. Our research and development function is responsible for the design, development, testing, validation, and refinement of our platforms, and embedding with our users allows us to identify research and development opportunities for our platforms or new products. We focus on innovating and developing new features and modules for our new and existing platforms, including AIP, or new products, and further enhancing the functionality, compatibility, reliability, usability, and performance of our platforms. By leveraging the tens of thousands of front-line hours across various industries and using emerging technologies, we can better anticipate customer needs and bring new use cases and new applications of services to our existing and potential customers. Our AIP bootcamps have and may continue to provide a forum to experience these new use cases and applications. Many of our current research and development efforts are focused on deploying software, models, and other critical assets at the edge. This includes integrations with complex hardware, operations in disconnected environments, and more. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to broaden our platform capabilities, strengthen our existing platforms and innovate. Privacy and Civil Liberties We are committed to ensuring that our software is as effective as possible while preserving individuals fundamental rights, including privacy and civil liberties. We have made deep investments to ensure that privacy, civil liberties, and other fundamental rights protections remain central to our software and business practices. Our platforms were built from the start to protect individual privacy and prevent the misuse of information. We are not in the business of collecting, mining, or selling data. We build software platforms that enable our customers to integrate their own data data to which they already have access. The same technology that makes Palantirs software platforms so analytically powerful the ability to construct a model of the real world from countless data points is what enables our customers to monitor and control access to that data and its use, while responsibly deploying increasingly advanced tools and capabilities, such as LLMs and other AI models. Principles As we build and implement technology to answer questions of increasing significance and complexity, we follow a set of principles that help us ensure we are doing so responsibly, including the consideration of AI ethics and best practices. Systems should incorporate principles of privacy by design. Our goal has always been to eliminate the perceived trade-offs between privacy and utility. To do so, we treat privacy as a first-order concern at every stage of the engineering process and build privacy features as core capabilities in our platforms, seamlessly integrated with analytical and collaboration tools. Decisions that can affect individuals rights to freedom, opportunity, and happiness cannot be left solely to computers. Our customers are using data to inform decisions with significant implications for individuals. Rather than relying 8 Table of Contents exclusively on algorithms that may inhibit accountability and redress, we build in means for humans to make necessary judgment calls based on their context and intuition. Systems must facilitate accountability and oversight. Effective privacy protection entails multi-layered, overlapping policies and procedures to reassure the protection of fundamental rights. We design our platforms to support these policies with mechanisms that control usage, alert users to data handling requirements, and generate information for those responsible for oversight. Technology is not the answer to every problem. Some decisions carry implications that are too complex or significant to be automated or streamlined, even with a human in the loop. We strive to contextualize major world problems and think critically about whether its possible to engineer complementary solutions in an ethically responsible way. When the answer is no, we turn the opportunity down. Privacy, civil liberties, and ethical engineering is an evolving field, and every organization is subject to unique requirements and concerns. The ways in which these principles are realized will differ among products and organizations. But the end goal should be the same: developing and implementing technology with a full understanding of its potential effects on fundamental rights and incorporating technical capabilities that can support responsible technology and data handling policies. Customer Impact Some examples of the ways in which our software facilitates data protection for our customers follow below. Our platforms serve as the central analytics system of a major law enforcement agency in northern Europe. Scandinavia has long been at the forefront of data protection, and our software facilitates effective implementation of its rigorous privacy policies. A financial institution required strong cryptographic guarantees of access control and selective revelation for sensitive client information on a need-to-know basis. Palantir Foundrys integrated obfuscation tool for cryptographic processes provided both IT and data governance teams with the necessary functionality and security assurances to establish privacy and governance safeguards in operational workflows carried out by non-technical users. This service, in conjunction with system-wide advanced encryption at both storage and network levels, helps to ensure continuous security guarantees for data throughout the full data use and management lifecycle. A customer in Europe needed to adhere to rigorous purpose specification and proportionality requirements during sensitive analytical workflows. We worked with the customer to implement technical measures requiring analysts to provide reviewable justifications for access. Those controls were further supported by auditing capabilities to ensure that data processing satisfied legitimate purposes under the relevant regulations. A European telecommunications company needed to process personal data for a customer support workflow, while complying with the necessity and proportionality requirements of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The client leveraged Palantirs minimization tool to obfuscate sensitive data in workflows, while allowing cell-level access by operational users based on demonstrated need. Our platforms provide a secure, privacy-protective cloud-based data enclave which centralizes data on COVID-19 for collaborative clinical research. Our Team We employ a team of engineers, lawyers, philosophers, and social scientists to ensure that our company remains a leader in the field when it comes to privacy practices and software development. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Engineering team is responsible for ensuring a culture of responsibility around the development and use of our technology by leading the development of privacy-enhancing technologies, publishing research, consulting with policymakers, helping our customers implement data governance best practices, and facilitating company-wide dialogue on ethical issues. The team is supported by the Palantir Council of Advisors on Privacy and Civil Liberties, a group of independent experts in privacy law, policy, and ethics who help us to understand and address the implications of our work. Privacy-Enhancing Technologies Granular Access Controls and Dynamic Data Minimization. Our platforms provide granular access restrictions with flexible permissions frameworks, such as role-, temporal-, and purpose-based access controls. These access control frameworks enable users to see only the specific information necessary for a defined task and only for the duration needed to complete it. Beyond access controls, organizations can also apply dynamic data minimization procedures such as pseudonymization, obfuscation, and encryption to adhere to compliance obligations while considering the context of specific workflows. 9 Table of Contents Sensitive Data Discovery and Management. Palantirs software platforms enable users to securely integrate and analyze sensitive data. To ensure robust governance and to enforce data protection and compliance policies, our platforms also come with tools to detect and manage the use of such sensitive data. Oversight and Auditability. Overseeing sensitive user actions within a system is critical to ensure that data is used appropriately and in compliance with applicable policies and regulations. Palantirs software platforms enable our customers internal governance, compliance, or audit teams to easily understand the nature of such sensitive user actions. Our platforms also maintain audit logs and make them accessible to authorized users, allowing them to both investigate potential past misuse of systems and flag suspicious activity proactively. Data Retention and Deletion. System administrators must be able to implement flexible and auditable retention policies and verify that data scheduled for deletion has truly been removed from the system. Our platforms allow organizations to ensure that out-of-date, expired, or irrelevant information is removed efficiently in order to improve data protection, governance, and compliance in accordance with applicable regulations. Data Provenance. Providing users with well-curated, up-to-date data is critical for building trust in an organizations data foundation. Our platforms automatically maintain complete records of both data provenance and all transformations applied to data in the system, allowing users to assess the reliability of the data and facilitate the review and correction of inaccuracies when necessary. Competition We are fundamentally competing with the internal software development efforts of our potential customers. Organizations frequently attempt to build their own data platforms before turning to buy ours. In trying to build something on their own, they generally rely on a patchwork of custom solutions, outside consultants, IT services companies, packaged enterprise and open source software, and significant internal IT resources. In addition, our competitors include large enterprise software companies, government contractors, and system integrators. We also face competition from emerging companies as well as established companies that are only now beginning to enter this market. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we operate include: platform capabilities and product functionality; data security and privacy; ease and speed of adoption, use, and deployment; product innovation; pricing and cost structures; customer experience, including support; and brand awareness and reputation. While we believe we generally compete favorably with our competitors, as well as with software developed by customers internally, based on these competitive factors, some of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and larger customer bases; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources and the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; broader, deeper, or otherwise more established relationships with technology, channel, and distribution partners and customers; wider geographic presence or greater access to larger potential customer bases; greater focus in specific geographies; lower labor and research and development costs; larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios; and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources to provide services, to make acquisitions, and to develop and introduce new products and capabilities. Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, contractual provisions, and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our proprietary inventions relevant to our business through patent protection in the United States and abroad; however, we are not dependent on any particular patent or application for the operation of our business. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we have registered Palantir as a trademark in the United States and other jurisdictions. We also have registered trademarks for Gotham, Palantir Foundry, and our corporate logo, and are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include Palantir, including, most importantly, Palantir.com. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into proprietary information and invention assignment agreements or similar agreements with our employees, consultants, and contractors. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights through provisions in our agreements with customers. Seasonality We generally experience seasonality in the timing of recognition of revenue as a result of the timing of the execution of our contracts as we have historically executed many of our contracts in the third and fourth quarters due to the fiscal year ends and procurement cycles of our customers and at times we may start work prior to finalizing such contracts. See Risk FactorsSeasonality may cause fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position. Employees and Human Capital Our employees are critical to the success of our business. As of December 31, 2024, we had 3,936 full-time employees, 31% of whom are employed outside of the United States. We also engage part-time employees, independent contractors, and third-party personnel to supplement our workforce. Other than in France, where we recognize a works council, we do not recognize a union or works council in respect of employees in other jurisdictions. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to employee disputes, and we believe that our employee relations are strong. Our human capital resources objectives include recruiting, retaining, training, and motivating our personnel. We strive to foster an environment which encourages active dialogue and robust engagement on the issues most salient to employee satisfaction and believe our employees are empowered to play a significant role in shaping the direction and success of the company. For example, we solicit feedback to assess the sentiment toward our values and culture, and our employees well-being and overall health. This signal allows Palantir to get actionable feedback and drive awareness, discussion, and change across areas that our employees value. Available Information Our website is https://www.palantir.com, our investor relations website is https://investors.palantir.com, our LinkedIn account is @Palantir Technologies, and our X (formerly known as Twitter) account is @PalantirTech. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our website, investor relations website, and our LinkedIn and X (formerly known as Twitter) accounts as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The following filings are available for download free of charge through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement), and any amendments to such filings. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, and committee charters is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Governance. The contents of the websites provided above are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our Class A common stock. These risks are described more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks relating to the following: until recent quarters, we had a history of incurring net losses, and we anticipate our operating expenses will continue to increase, and we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future; we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth; our sales efforts involve considerable time and expense and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable; a limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue; our results of operations and our key business measures are likely to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis; seasonality may cause fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position; our platforms are complex and may have a lengthy implementation process; we may not successfully develop and deploy new technologies (such as technologies incorporating AI) to address the needs of our customers; our platforms must operate with third-party products and services; we may be unable to hire, retain, train, and motivate qualified personnel and senior management and deploy our personnel and resources to meet customer demand; we may be unable to successfully build, expand, and deploy our marketing and sales organization; we may not be able to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation; unfavorable news or social media coverage may harm our reputation and business; exclusive arrangements or unique terms with customers or partners may result in significant risks or liabilities to us; we face intense competition in our markets; we may be unable to maintain or properly manage our culture as we grow; we may not enter into relationships with potential customers if we consider their activities to be inconsistent with our organizational mission or values; joint ventures, channel sales relationships, platform partnerships, and strategic alliances may be unsuccessful; we may not be successful in executing our strategy to increase our sales to larger customers; breach of the systems of any third parties upon which we rely, our customers systems, locations, or environments, or our internal systems or unauthorized access to data; the market for our platforms and services may develop more slowly than we expect; we have made and may continue to make strategic investments to support key business initiatives, including in privately-held and publicly-traded companies, as well as alternative investments, and we may not realize a return on these investments; issues raised by the use of AI (including machine learning and large language models) in our platforms and business may result in reputational harm or liability; we depend on computing infrastructure of third parties and they may experience errors, disruption, performance problems, or failure; 12 Table of Contents we may fail to adequately obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights; we may be subject to intellectual property rights claims; there may be real or perceived errors, failures, defects, or bugs in our platforms; we rely on the availability of third-party technology that may be difficult to replace or that may cause errors; our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and security, technology protection, and other matters; our non-U.S. sales and operations subject us to additional risks and regulations; we may encounter unfavorable outcomes in legal, regulatory, and administrative inquiries and proceedings; we may fail to receive and maintain government contracts or there may be changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the public sector; many of our customer contracts may be terminated by the customer at any time for convenience and may contain other provisions permitting the customer to discontinue contract performance; we may not realize the full deal value of our customer contracts; there may be a decline in the U.S. and other government budgets, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, or delays in contract awards; there are no guarantees that our Share Repurchase Program (as defined below) will result in increased shareholder value; and the multi-class structure of our common stock, the Founder Voting Trust Agreement, and the Founder Voting Agreement concentrate voting power with certain stockholders, in particular, Stephen Cohen, Alexander Karp, and Peter Thiel (our Founders) and their affiliates. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Until recent quarters, we had a history of incurring net losses, and we anticipate our operating expenses will continue to increase, and we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future. Although we have achieved profitability in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in recent quarters, we incurred net losses in each period from our inception through the third quarter of 2022. We may not maintain profitability in future periods or, if we are profitable, we may not fully achieve our profitability targets. In addition, while we remain focused on operating efficiently, we anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase in the future. As we continue to expand our business, industry verticals, and the breadth of our operations, upgrade our infrastructure, hire additional employees, expand into new markets, invest in research and development, invest in sales and marketing, including expanding our sales organization and related sales-based payments that may come with such expansion, lease more real estate to accommodate our anticipated future growth, and incur costs associated with general administration, including expenses related to being a public company, we expect that our costs of revenue and operating expenses will continue to increase. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we may also incur increased expenses or losses because the costs associated with acquiring and growing our customers and with research and development are generally incurred upfront, while our revenue from customer contracts is generally recognized over the contract term. Furthermore, our sales model has historically required us to spend months and invest significant resources working with customers on pilot deployments at no or low cost to them. Though we have begun to integrate shorter, more cost-effective programs such as bootcamps, these initial deployments (including bootcamps) may result in no or minimal future revenue. We may also encounter unforeseen or unpredictable factors, including adverse macroeconomic conditions, unforeseen operating expenses, or other complications or delays, which may result in increased costs, or cause us to generate less revenue from our customers than we anticipated. We may not be able to continue to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset increases in our costs of revenue and operating expenses in the near term or at all, which would prevent us from maintaining profitability in the future. Any failure by us to maintain or increase profitability in the future or achieve our profitability targets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth in the future. Although our revenue has increased in recent periods, there can be no assurances that our revenue will continue to grow or do so at current rates, and you should not rely on the revenue of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue growth rate has declined in certain recent periods, and may continue to decline in future periods. In addition, as we continue to expand our platform and product offerings, or experience greater adoption of certain of our platform and product offerings, we have and may continue to experience variability in our revenue growth in certain markets or with 13 Table of Contents certain customer segments relative to other markets or customer segments. Many factors may contribute to declines or variability in our revenue growth, including macroeconomic factors, increased competition, slowing demand for our platforms from existing and new customers, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, terminations of existing contracts or failure to exercise existing options by our customers, and the maturation of our business, among others. If our revenue growth or revenue growth rate declines overall, or with respect to certain areas of our business, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our sales efforts involve considerable time and expense, and our sales cycle is often long and unpredictable. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle. As part of our standard sales efforts, we invest considerable time and expense evaluating the specific organizational needs of our potential customers and educating these potential customers about the technical capabilities and value of our platforms and services. We often also provide our platforms to potential customers (including individual users at such customers) at no or low cost initially to them for evaluation purposes through short-term pilot deployments of our platforms, including at bootcamps, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to convert customers from these short-term pilot deployments to longer-term revenue-generating contracts. We may continue to modify and update our sales efforts to meet market demand and the organizational needs of our potential customers, including to implement new go-to-market mechanisms or self-service models, or to collaborate with third party service providers, and any of these changes may not be successful and could increase our operating expenses. In addition, we have grown and may continue to grow our direct sales force, and our sales efforts have historically depended on the significant involvement of our senior management team. The length of our sales cycle, from initial demonstration of our platforms to sale of our platforms and services, tends to be long and varies substantially from customer to customer. Our sales cycle often lasts six to nine months but can extend to a year or more for some customers. Because decisions to purchase our platforms involve significant financial commitments, potential customers generally evaluate our platforms at multiple levels within their organization, each of which often have specific requirements, and typically involve their senior management. Our results of operations depend on sales to enterprise customers, which make product purchasing decisions based in part or entirely on factors, or perceived factors, not directly related to the features of the platforms, including, among others, that customers projections of business growth, uncertainty about macroeconomic conditions (including as a result of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and related economic sanctions, the conflict resulting from Hamas attack on Israel, heightened interest rates, monetary policy changes, or foreign currency fluctuations), capital budgets, anticipated cost savings from the implementation of our platforms, potential preference for such customers internally-developed software solutions, perceptions about our business and platforms, more favorable terms offered by potential competitors, and previous technology investments. In addition, certain decision makers and other stakeholders within our potential customers tend to have vested interests in the continued use of internally developed or existing software, which may make it more difficult for us to sell our platforms and services. As a result of these and other factors, our sales efforts typically require an extensive effort throughout a customers organization, a significant investment of human resources, expense and time, including by our senior management, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in making a sale to a potential customer. If our sales efforts to a potential customer do not result in sufficient revenue to justify our investments, including in our growing direct sales force, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, existing customers have expanded their relationships with us, which has resulted in a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial portion of our revenue. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us or renew their contracts with us, or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired or terminated, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from existing customers that expand their relationships with us. Increasing the size and number of the deployments of our existing customers is a major part of our growth strategy. We may not be effective in executing this or any other aspect of our growth strategy. Our top three customers together accounted for 17% and 18% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our top three customers by revenue for the year ended December 31, 2024, have been with us for an average of nine years as of December 31, 2024. Certain of our customers, including customers that represent a significant portion of our business, have in the past reduced, and others may choose in the future to reduce, their spend with us or terminated their agreements with us, which has reduced our anticipated future payments or revenue from these customers, and which has required us to refund some previously paid amounts to these customers. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand from our larger customers for our platforms and applications. While we generally offer contract terms of one to five years in length, our customers sometimes enter into shorter-term contracts which may not provide for automatic renewal and may require the customer to opt-in to extend the term. Our customers have no obligation to renew, upgrade, or expand their agreements with us after the terms of their existing agreements 14 Table of Contents have expired. In addition, many of our customer contracts permit the customer to terminate their contracts with us with notice periods of varying lengths. If one or more of our customers terminate their contracts with us, whether for convenience, for default in the event of a breach by us, or for other reasons specified in our contracts, as applicable; if our customers elect not to renew their contracts with us; if our customers renew their contractual arrangements with us for shorter contract lengths or for a reduced scope; or if our customers otherwise seek to renegotiate terms of their existing agreements on terms less favorable to us, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. This adverse impact would be even more pronounced for customers that represent a material portion of our revenue or business operations. Our ability to renew or expand our customer relationships may decrease or vary as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our platforms and services, the frequency and severity of software and implementation errors, our platforms reliability, our pricing, the effects of general economic conditions, competitive offerings or alternatives, or reductions in our customers spending levels. If our customers do not renew or expand their agreements with us or if they renew their contracts for shorter lengths or on other terms less favorable to us, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our business could suffer. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations would also be adversely affected if we face difficulty collecting our accounts receivable from our customers or if we are required to refund customer deposits. Achieving renewal or expansion of deployments may require us to increasingly engage in sophisticated and costly sales efforts that may not result in additional sales. In addition, our customers decisions to expand the deployment of our platforms depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the functioning of our platforms, the ability of our employees to assist our customers in identifying new use cases, modernizing their data architectures, and achieving success with data-driven initiatives, and our customers satisfaction with our services. If our efforts to expand within our existing customer base are not successful, our business may suffer. We may not realize the full deal value of our customer contracts, which may result in lower than expected revenue. As of December 31, 2024, the total remaining deal value, as defined in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewTotal Remaining Deal Value, was $5.4 billion. Of our total remaining deal value, as of December 31, 2024, $3.1 billion was the remaining deal value of our contracts with commercial customers and $2.3 billion was the remaining deal value of our contracts with government customers. Many of these contracts are subject to termination for convenience provisions. Additionally, the U.S. federal government is prohibited from exercising contract options more than one year in advance. As a result, there can be no guarantee that our customer contracts will not be terminated or that contract options will be exercised. We historically have not realized all of the revenue from the full deal value of our customer contracts, and we may not do so in the future. This is because the actual timing and amount of revenue under contracts included are subject to various contingencies, including exercise of contractual options, customers not terminating their contracts, renegotiation of contracts, and other macroeconomic factors that may potentially inhibit a customers ability to pay. In addition, delays in the completion of the U.S. governments budgeting process, the use of continuing resolutions, and a potential lapse in appropriations, or similar events in other jurisdictions, has and could in the future adversely affect our ability to timely recognize revenue under certain government contracts. If we are unable to realize all of the revenue from the full deal value of our customer contracts, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations and our key business measures are likely to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis in future periods and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations. Our quarterly results of operations, including cash flows, have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results, financial position, and operations are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in quarterly results may also negatively impact the value of our Class A common stock. We typically close a large portion of our sales in the last several weeks of a quarter, which impacts our ability to plan and manage margins and cash flows. Our sales cycle is often long, and it is difficult to predict exactly when, or if, we will actually make a sale with a potential customer, particularly large government and commercial customers. As a result, large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large sales transactions in a quarter would impact our results of operations and cash flow for that quarter and any future quarters in which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed. In addition, downturns in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue because we generally recognize revenue over the term of our contracts. The timing of 15 Table of Contents customer billing and payment varies from contract to contract. A delay in the timing of receipt of such collections, or a default on a large contract, may negatively impact our liquidity for the period and in the future. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term and require time to adjust, our results of operations and liquidity would suffer if revenue fell below our expectations in a particular period. Other factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and financial position include, without limitation, those listed below: the success of our sales and marketing efforts, including the success of our pilot deployments (including bootcamps); our ability to increase our contribution margins; the timing of expenses and revenue recognition, including from changes in accounting assumptions or estimates; the timing and amount of payments received from our customers; termination of one or more large contracts by customers, including for convenience; the time and cost-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of sales cycles; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the development, maintenance, and expansion of our business and operations; the timing and effectiveness of new sales and marketing initiatives; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; the timing and success of new platforms, products, features, and functionality introduced by us or our competitors; interruptions or delays in our operations and maintenance (O&M) services; cyberattacks and other actual or perceived data or security breaches or incidents; our ability to hire and retain employees, in particular, those responsible for operations and maintenance of and the selling or marketing of our platforms, and develop and retain talented sales personnel who are able to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time and provide sales leadership in areas in which we are expanding our sales and marketing efforts; the amount and timing of our stock-based compensation expenses; the amount and timing of employer payroll taxes related to stock-based compensation resulting from increases in our stock price; changes in the way we organize and compensate our employees; changes in the way we operate and maintain our platforms; unforeseen negative results in operations from our partnerships; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry; the cost of and potential outcomes of existing and future claims or litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business, such as the FASA or the European Union (EU) AI Act (EU AIA); indemnification payments to our customers or other third parties; ability to scale our business with increasing demands; the timing of expenses related to any future acquisitions; and general economic, regulatory, and market conditions, including the impacts of ongoing conflicts, such as those in Russia-Ukraine and Israel, and any related economic sanctions and regional instability, heightened interest rates, monetary policy changes, or foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, many of our contracts contain termination for convenience provisions, and we may be obligated to repay prepaid amounts or otherwise not realize anticipated future revenue should we fail to provide products or future services as anticipated. These factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict financial metrics for any particular period. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations, cash flows, or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other key metrics 16 Table of Contents for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall, and we could face costly lawsuits. We and certain of our officers and directors were sued in purported class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. For additional information see Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position. Historically, the first quarter of our year generally has relatively lower sales, and sales generally increase in each subsequent quarter with substantial increases during our third and fourth quarters ending September 30 and December 31, respectively. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including: the fiscal year end procurement cycle of our government customers, and in particular U.S. government customers which have a fiscal year end of September 30; the fiscal year budgeting process for our commercial customers, many of which have a fiscal year end of December 31; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in the United States, Europe, and certain other regions; and timing of projects and our customers evaluation of our work progress. This seasonality has historically impacted and may in the future continue to impact the timing of collections and recognized revenue. Because a significant portion of our customer contracts are typically finalized near the end of the year, and we typically invoice customers shortly after entering into a contract, we may receive a portion of our customer payments near the end of the year and record such payment as an increase in deferred revenue or customer deposits (contract liabilities), while the revenue from our customer contracts is generally recognized over the contract term. While we have historically billed and collected payments for multiple contract years from certain customers in advance, we have shifted, and may continue to shift, to collecting payments on an annual or other basis, including in arrears. While this has been the historical seasonal pattern of our quarterly sales, we believe that our customers required timing for certain new government or commercial programs requiring new software may outweigh the nature or magnitude of seasonal factors that might have influenced our business to date. As a result, we may experience future growth from additional government or commercial mandates that do not follow the seasonal purchasing and evaluation decisions by our customers that we have historically observed. For example, increased government spending on technology aimed at national defense, financial or policy regulation, cybersecurity, or healthcare mandates may drive customer demand at different times throughout our year, the timing of which we may not be able to anticipate and may cause fluctuations in our results of operations. The timing of our fiscal quarters and the U.S. federal governments September 30 fiscal year end also may impact sales to governmental agencies in the third quarter of our year, offsetting, at least in part, the otherwise seasonal downturn we have historically observed in later summer months. Our rapid growth in recent years may obscure the extent to which seasonality trends have affected our business and may continue to affect our business. We expect that seasonality will continue to materially impact our business in the future and may become more pronounced over time. The seasonality of our business may cause continued or increased fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows, which may prevent us from achieving our quarterly or annual forecasts or meeting or exceeding the expectations of research analysts or investors, which in turn may cause a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our platforms are complex and may have a lengthy implementation process, and any failure of our platforms to satisfy our customers or perform as desired could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our platforms and services are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. Implementing our platforms can be a complex and lengthy process since we often configure our existing platforms for a customers unique environment. Inability to meet the unique needs of our customers may result in customer dissatisfaction and/or damage to our reputation, which could materially harm our business. Further, the proper use of our platforms may require training of the customer and the initial or ongoing services of our technical personnel as well as O&M services over the contract term. If training and/or ongoing services require more of our expenditures than we originally estimated, our margins will be lower than projected. In addition, if our customers do not use our platforms correctly or as intended, inadequate performance or outcomes may result. It is possible that our platforms may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or their employees or third parties 17 Table of Contents who obtain access and use of our platforms. Similarly, our platforms sometimes are used by customers with smaller or less sophisticated IT departments, potentially resulting in sub-optimal performance at a level lower than anticipated by the customer. Because our customers rely on our platforms and services to address important business goals and challenges, the incorrect or improper use or configuration of our platforms and O&M services, failure to properly train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our platforms, or failure to properly provide implementation or analytical or maintenance services to our customers may result in contract terminations or non-renewals, reduced customer payments, negative publicity, or legal claims against us. For example, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services may result in lost opportunities for follow-on expansion sales of our platforms and services. Furthermore, if customer personnel are not well trained in the use of our platforms, customers may defer the deployment of our platforms and services, may deploy them in a more limited manner than originally anticipated, or may not deploy them at all. If there is substantial turnover of the Company or customer personnel responsible for procurement and use of our platforms, our platforms may go unused or be adopted less broadly, and our ability to make additional sales may be substantially limited, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and growth prospects. If we do not successfully develop and deploy new technologies (such as technologies incorporating AI) to address the needs of our customers, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our success has been based on our ability to design software and products that enable the integration of data into a common operating environment to facilitate advanced data analysis, knowledge management, and collaboration. We spend substantial amounts of time and money researching and developing new technologies and enhanced versions of existing features to meet our customers and potential customers rapidly evolving needs. There is no assurance that our enhancements to our platforms or our new product features, capabilities, or offerings, including new platforms or product modules, such as our Artificial Intelligence Platform (AIP), will, either individually or in the aggregate, be compelling to our customers, gain market acceptance, or have a positive or material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, in each case in a timely or cost-effective manner. For example, we and our peers and competitors are investing more significantly in AI (including machine learning, large language and other generative AI models, and software functionality to operationalize the foregoing). There are significant risks involved in deploying AI and there can be no assurance that using AI in our platforms and products will enhance or be beneficial to our business, including our profitability. Further, other companies may develop products that are similar to ours, or adopt and implement AI more successfully or at a quicker pace than us. If our research and development investments do not accurately anticipate customer demand or if we fail to develop our platforms in a manner that satisfies customer preferences or needs in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to retain our existing customers or increase demand for our platforms. The introduction of new products and services by competitors or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our platforms obsolete or adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience difficulties with software development, design, or marketing that delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new platforms, features, or capabilities. We have in the past experienced delays in our internally planned release dates of new features and capabilities, and there can be no assurance that new platforms, features, or capabilities will be released according to schedule. Any delays could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue or market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, any of which could harm our business. Moreover, the design and development of new platforms or new features and capabilities to our existing platforms may require substantial investment, and we have no assurance that such investments will be successful. If customers do not widely adopt our new platforms, products, features, and capabilities, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our new and existing platforms and changes to our existing platforms could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: our failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of product functionality and to supply offerings that meet this demand in a timely fashion; product defects, errors, or failures or our inability to satisfy customer service level requirements; negative publicity or negative private statements about the security, performance, or effectiveness of our platforms or product enhancements; delays in releasing to the market our new offerings or enhancements to our existing offerings, including new product modules; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing platforms or functionalities by our competitors; inability of our platforms or product enhancements to scale and perform to meet customer demands or needs; 18 Table of Contents receiving qualified or adverse opinions in connection with security or penetration testing, certifications or audits, such as those related to IT controls and security standards and frameworks or compliance; poor business conditions for our customers, causing them to delay software purchases; reluctance of customers to purchase proprietary software products; reluctance of our customers to purchase products hosted by our vendors and/or service interruption from such providers; reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating generative AI; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. If we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by our customers and develop, license, or acquire new features and capabilities to our platforms in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may suffer and our anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved. Because we derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from customers purchasing our platforms and products, market acceptance of these platforms and products, and any enhancements or changes thereto, is critical to our success. The competitive position of our platforms depends in part on their ability to operate with third-party products and services, and if we are not successful in maintaining and expanding the compatibility of our platforms with such third-party products and services, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The competitive position of our platforms depends in part on their ability to operate with products and services of third parties, software services, and infrastructure in connection with our work in the public and commercial sectors, including but not limited to, our joint ventures, channel sales relationships, platform partnerships, strategic alliances, and other similar arrangements where applicable. As such, we must continuously modify and enhance our platforms to adapt to changes in, or to be integrated or otherwise compatible with, hardware, software, networking, browser, and database technologies. In the future, one or more companies may choose not to support the operation of their hardware, software, or infrastructure, or our platforms may not support the capabilities needed to operate with such hardware, software, or infrastructure. In addition, to the extent that a third party were to develop software or services that compete with ours, that provider may choose not to support one or more of our platforms. We intend to facilitate the compatibility of our platforms with various third-party hardware, software, and infrastructure by maintaining and expanding our business and technical relationships. For example, in March 2024, we were selected by the U.S. Army to develop and deliver the Tactical Intelligence Targeting Access Node ground station system, the Armys first AI-defined vehicle, which will involve coordination with third parties such as hardware manufacturers. If we are not successful in achieving our compatibility goal, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business could be harmed. Since our founding in 2003, we have experienced rapid growth. We operate in a growing market and have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant expansion of our operations. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, a strain on our employees, management systems, operational, financial, and other resources. As we have grown, we have increasingly managed larger and more complex deployments of our platforms and services with a broader base of government and commercial customers. As we continue to grow, we face challenges of integrating, developing, retaining, and motivating our employee base in various countries around the world. For example, our headcount has grown from 313 full-time employees as of December 31, 2010 to 3,936 full-time employees as of December 31, 2024, with employees located both in the United States and outside the United States. In the event of continued growth of our operations, our operational resources, including our information technology systems, our employee base, or our internal