Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, the Company, Palladyne AI Corp., Palladyne, we, us, and our refers to Palladyne AI Corp., and its subsidiaries, collectively. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (this Report) as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 (the 2024 Form 10-K) and our other filings, including Current Reports on Form 8-K, that we have filed with the SEC through the date of this Report. As discussed in the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements below, in addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements relate to expectations for future financial performance, business strategies or expectations for our business. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to: our ability to develop and sell our full-stack, closed-loop autonomy software ("AI/ML Foundational Technology") and related products and the capabilities and functionality of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products our expected timeline and amount of our product revenues; nature and size of the markets that we are targeting; our software product roadmaps, including expected timing of new or enhanced product releases and target markets; our ability to respond to rapid technological changes; competition from existing or future businesses and technologies and the potential advantages of our products as compared to competitors; our ability to manage our growth and expenses; our ability to comply with evolving laws and regulations applicable to our business; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with the necessary experience, including employees who are instrumental to our business strategy; our projected financial and operating information and estimates of market size and opportunities; our future financial performance; the impact of natural disasters, health epidemics and global economic and geopolitical conditions and international conflicts on our business and the business of our customers; changes in regulations and customs, tariffs and trade barriers; changes in the markets for our software products; expansion plans and opportunities; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; our ability to defend and the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain and protect our brand; and 23 other statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may," "can," "should," "will," "estimate," "plan," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "seek," "aim," "target" or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Report and our management's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and, in any event, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those factors described in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this Report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. In addition, statements that "we believe" and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information known to us as of the date of this Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview Our mission is to deliver artificial intelligence software products that enable robotic and unmanned platforms, or robotic systems, in the industrial and defense sectors to perform complex tasks in arbitrary (i.e., unstructured and dynamic) human environments. Our AI/ML Foundational Technology enhances the utility and functionality of third-party stationary and mobile robotic systems by allowing these systems to quickly observe, learn, reason and act in structured and unstructured environments. Our AI/ML Foundational Technology is designed with artificial intelligence ("AI") and machine learning ("ML") technologies to enable robotic systems to perceive their environment and quickly adapt to changing circumstances by generalizing (i.e., learning) from their past experience using dynamic real-time operations "on the edge" (i.e., on the robotic system and not in the cloud) without extensive programming, training or the latency associated with processing in the cloud. We believe this "human-like" ability to learn, reason and adapt will be a key differentiator in assisting our customers to enhance productivity in dynamic or unstructured environments, where human reasoning has traditionally been required to complete the task. We designed our AI/ML Foundational Technology to be hardware agnostic, meaning that our AI/ML software products are designed so that with a minimal integration effort they will be able to function on a wide variety of industrial robots, cobots, unmanned aerial vehicles ("UAV"), unmanned ground vehicles ("UGV") and other remotely operated vehicles ("ROV"). Our AI/ML Foundational Technology is the foundational technology for our two software products. The first, Palladyne IQ, has been developed for use with industrial robots and cobots, and the second, Palladyne Pilot, has been developed for use with unmanned platforms with our current focus being Class 1 UAVs. We have released the initial commercial versions of our Palladyne IQ product and our Palladyne Pilot product. We expect to continue to advance and evolve our technology and products in response to the evolving demands of our customers in the various industries we expect to serve. Palladyne IQ and Palladyne Pilot are in the early stages of commercialization (the process of bringing the product to market, generating sales and deploying the product with customers) and they continue to undergo reliability testing, debugging, and other stabilizing improvements. We believe that our initial customer base will be comprised of innovators and early adopters in the industrial manufacturing, defense, infrastructure maintenance, repair and surveillance, energy and aerospace and aviation industries. We believe that if we are successful in demonstrating the value of our products with these early adopters, there will be many potential customers that follow. Palladyne IQ is being offered through a term-based licensing model that would result in a recurring revenue stream, while Palladyne Pilot is offered through a device-based licensing model. We may also offer add-on functionality for an additional license fee. While we plan to charge an upfront fee for the hardware associated with Palladyne IQ, we may choose to embed the cost in the license fee in the future. Based on interaction with dozens of potential customers during the first half of 2025, we believe that the sales cycle for our products is likely to be between 12 and 18 months, or even longer. System integrators and potential customers of Palladyne IQ have indicated that recent changes in U.S. trade policy have caused some potential customers to re-evaluate their automation priorities which we believe will delay certain investment decisions in the near term but will overall create greater opportunities for Palladyne IQ deployments in the United States in the medium and long term. We continue to expect to begin generating revenues from commercial customers in 2025 and for revenues to grow modestly throughout 2026. 24 We have U.S. government revenue-generating contracts related to various aspects of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and our Palladyne IQ and Palladyne Pilot products. As scheduled to date, we have timely met all the development milestones associated with these contracts and recognized revenue based on work completed. Please see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to these activities, in particular those discussed under "Risks Related to our Business". Key Factors Affecting Operating Results We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Development, Testing and Commercial Launch of our AI/ML Software Products We expect to continue commercialization efforts, internal testing and customer trials for both products throughout 2025. Whether we are successful in these efforts depends on many factors, including those discussed under Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Such risks may result in delay in achieving product revenues, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Financing of Operations We intend to use our cash on hand to continue to enhance our software products, conduct product development activities, pursue marketing and sales opportunities and fund operations as we seek to further commercialize and enhance and achieve revenue from our products. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product commercialization and enhancement efforts, our ability to sell our software products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital and human capital requirements to develop and sell products prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. We have taken and continue to take numerous steps to manage our use of cash. For example, we conducted two workforce reductions during 2023 (the "2023 RIFs") which allowed us to further conserve our cash resources and manage operating expenses. The last cash payments related to the 2023 RIFs were paid during the first quarter of 2024. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2024 and the first half of 2025 we raised approximately $60.7 million in gross proceeds from the sale of our Common Stock and warrants. For further information on our financing activities, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources." We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate for at least the next 12 months without the need to raise additional capital. However, we may decide to seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and increase our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists. Any delays in the sales of our AI/ML software products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability, our cash flows, our overall operating performance and our ability to continue operations and may result in the need to raise additional capital. We will continue to carefully evaluate our use of cash and liquidity. Customer Demand Although demand for AI/ML software products has grown in recent years, the market continues to evolve. The market demand for our software is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. Based on interaction with dozens of potential customers during the first half of 2025, we believe that the sales cycle for our products is likely to be between 12 and 18 months, or even longer. While we believe that our products will provide significant benefits and return on investment to customers, as it is a new technology, we are dependent on customers who are willing to adopt, purchase and implement new technologies and products. If customer demand does not develop as expected or we do not accurately estimate pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Continued Investment and Innovation We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30-plus years and significant investment in research and development. Through our hardware development efforts over many years, including our related AI-software development efforts, we developed a significant amount of advanced technology that we are leveraging to develop our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products. We believe our financial performance is dependent on our ability to enhance and update our products. It is important that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements and competitive threats, develop and introduce innovative products, enhance our products and generate active market demand for and sell our products. If we fail to do this, 25 our market and financial position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in these technologies will not be recovered. Geopolitical and Macro-economic Environment Geopolitical and macro-economic factors, such as inflation, changes in United States trade policy, including tariffs, interest rates, oil prices, unemployment rates, international conflicts, such as the current wars between Russia and Ukraine and conflict in the middle east, volatility in the stock market and political or social unrest, can have significant impacts on economic activity, which in turn could affect demand for our products or our ability to cost-effectively develop and sell our products. Among other things, these and similar factors can affect our ability to hire or retain qualified personnel, our labor and materials costs, the prices we charge for our software products and the budgets of our customers and their expected return-on-investment from the purchase of a license for our software product. Many of these factors are outside of our control but can have a significant impact on our business success and operating results. If we are unable to manage our business successfully in response to any such factors, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively: Three Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 1,012 $ 2,713 $ (1,701 ) (63 )% Product Revenue 3 3 *NM Revenue, net $ 1,015 $ 2,713 $ (1,698 ) (63 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Revenue decreased by $1.7 million, or 63%, from $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $1.7 million, or 63%, from $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. The decrease was primarily due to available funding and the timing of the completion of certain milestones within our product development contracts during the current period. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. For the time being, we intend to take on only those development contracts that we believe support and contribute to our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related product development efforts. As a result, there may be fewer opportunities to replace completed contracts. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales was minimal during the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. 26 Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 474 $ 569 $ (95 ) (17 )% Research and development 3,125 2,348 777 33 % General and administrative 4,179 4,291 (112 ) (3 )% Sales and marketing 1,331 1,380 (49 ) (4 )% Asset write-down and restructuring (88 ) 88 (100 )% Total operating expenses $ 9,109 $ 8,500 $ 609 7 % Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $0.1 million, or 17%, from $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Cost of revenue decreased primarily due to lower labor and material expenses charged to product development contracts during the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2024. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $0.8 million, or 33%, from $2.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $3.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Research and development costs during the three months ended June 30, 2025 increased due to labor and labor related expenses associated with product testing, debugging, stabilization and enhancements of our software products. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $0.1 million, or 3%, from $4.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $4.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced labor and labor related expenses and reduced business insurance expenses, partially offset by increased stock-based compensation expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased by 4%, from $1.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. This decrease was driven by decreased labor and labor related expense, mostly offset by increased marketing program expenses. Asset Write-down and Restructuring There were no significant asset write-down and restructuring costs for the three months ended June 30, 2025 or the prior year period. Other Income The following table presents other income for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively: Three Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 505 $ 346 $ 159 46 % Gain on warrant liability 102 116 (14 ) (12 )% Other income, net 2 (2 ) (100 )% Total other income $ 607 $ 464 $ 143 31 % 27 Other income increased minimally by $0.1 million from $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024, to $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Other income increased as a result of increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities due to an increase in invested funds. Provision for Income Taxes We had no significant income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 is based on the Companys estimated annualized effective tax rate for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, the Companys recognized effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate as the Company recorded net taxable losses during the period with a corresponding full valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets created from the losses. Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively: Six Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 2,722 $ 3,595 $ (873 ) (24 )% Product Revenue 3 2,559 (2,556 ) (100 )% Revenue, net $ 2,725 $ 6,154 $ (3,429 ) (56 )% Revenue decreased by $3.4 million, or 56%, from $6.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $0.9 million, or 24%, from $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025. The decrease was primarily due to available funding and the timing of completion of certain milestones within our product development contracts during the current period. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. For the time being, we intend to take on only those development contracts that we believe support and contribute to our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related product development efforts. As a result, there may be fewer opportunities to replace completed contracts. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales decreased by $2.6 million, or 100%. The decrease was due to legacy hardware product sales during the six months ended June 30, 2024 that did not recur during the six months ended June 30, 2025. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024: Six Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 827 $ 2,455 $ (1,628 ) (66 )% Research and development 5,995 5,243 752 14 % General and administrative 8,378 9,416 (1,038 ) (11 )% Sales and marketing 2,550 2,185 365 17 % Asset write-down and restructuring (5 ) 5 (100 )% Total operating expenses $ 17,750 $ 19,294 $ (1,544 ) (8 )% 28 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $1.6 million, or 66%, from $2.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $0.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025. Cost of revenue decreased primarily due to lower product costs, which resulted from the decline in product revenue, as well as decreased labor and material expenses charged to product development contracts during the six months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2024. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $0.8 million, or 14% from $5.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $6.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025. Research and development costs during the six months ended June 30, 2025 increased due to labor and labor related expenses associated with product testing, debugging, stabilization and enhancements of our software products. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $1.0 million, or 11%, from $9.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $8.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced labor and labor related expenses and reduced business insurance expenses, partially offset by increased stock-based compensation expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.4 million, or 17%, from $2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $2.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2025. This increase was driven by increased marketing program costs related to our new software products. Asset Write-down and Restructuring There were no significant asset write-down and restructuring costs for the six months ended June 30, 2025 or the prior year period. Other Income The following table presents other income for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively: Six Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 946 $ 718 $ 228 32 % Gain (loss) on warrant liabilities 29,351 (132 ) 29,483 (22,336 )% Other income, net 2 (2 ) (100 )% Total other income $ 30,297 $ 588 $ 29,709 5,053 % Other income increased by $29.7 million from $0.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024, to $30.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Other income increased almost entirely as a result of increased unrealized mark-to-market gains on our outstanding warrants. In addition, the increase was also impacted by increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities due to an increase in invested funds. Provision for Income Taxes We had no significant income tax expense for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 is based on the Companys estimated annualized effective tax rate for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, the Companys recognized effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate as the Company recorded net taxable losses during the period with a corresponding full valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets created from the losses. Backlog and Total Estimated Contract Value Our backlog, as of June 30, 2025, was $1.7 million, $0.9 million of which was funded and $0.8 million of which was unfunded. Our backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under contracts or the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and 29 unfunded, less revenue recognized to date. Our total estimated remaining contract value, which combines backlog with estimated remaining potential contract value, including unexercised options from existing firm contracts, was $7.8 million as of June 30, 2025. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $62.7 million as of June 30, 2025, compared to $40.1 million as of December 31, 2024. We have incurred losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations since inception and are likely to continue to incur losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations in the near term. As of June 30, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $475.6 million and working capital of $62.0 million. On October 31, 2024, we announced that we raised approximately $7 million in gross proceeds from the sale of Common Stock and warrants through a registered offering and two separate private placements. In May 2025, 2,790,700 of the 2024 Warrants were exercised resulting in proceeds of $6.4 million. On November 13, 2024, we entered into an open market sale agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Jefferies LLC to sell shares of our Common Stock from time to time through an "at-the-market" equity offering program under which Jefferies is acting as our sales agent and on November 13, 2024, we filed a prospectus supplement with the SEC in connection with the offer and sale of up to $18.0 million of shares of our Common Stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement. As of December 31, 2024, we had sold a total of 3,680,543 shares of our Common Stock under the Sales Agreement for gross sales proceeds of approximately $18.0 million, before deducting commission and other expenses. On December 31, 2024 we filed a prospectus supplement in connection with offering for sale an additional $30.0 million of shares pursuant to the Sales Agreement. During the six months ended June 30, 2025, we sold a total of 3,056,229 shares of our Common Stock under the Sales Agreement for gross sales proceeds of approximately $29.3 million, before deducting commission and other expenses. In July 2025, we sold 77,960 shares of our Common Stock for gross sales proceeds of approximately $0.7 million, before deducting commission and other expenses, which was the remaining capacity under the at-the-market program in effect at the time. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand will be sufficient to support operations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Report. Our primary use of cash is for operations and administrative activities including employee-related expenses and general, operating and overhead expenses. While we do not have any debt, we do have a long-term lease for our facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah. Future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the timing and extent of development efforts, the expansion and results of sales and marketing activities, the sales cycle for our products, customer acquisition and revenues, revenue growth rate, customer retention, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings and market acceptance of our products. We have taken many steps to reduce our use of cash. For example, we suspended our hardware product development efforts and focused our product development efforts on our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, conducted the 2023 RIFs and terminated our operations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. We plan to use our existing capital to further commercialize and conduct sales and marketing efforts for Palladyne IQ and Palladyne Pilot, as well as continue product testing, debugging and stabilization efforts and conduct product development efforts for the next versions of our products. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to commercialize our products and thereby recognize associated revenue and capital requirements to conduct marketing and sales activities prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs. Any delays in the sales of our software products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, profitability, overall operating performance and financial condition. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or needed, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, which may require acquisition capital as well as operational capital for these acquisitions or arrangements. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to facilitate these arrangements. If additional financing is required from outside sources in connection with these arrangements, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We currently primarily use cash from equity financings to fund operations and capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, for acquisitions or for other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through additional debt or equity financings or from other sources. We have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash, including conducting the 2023 RIFs and other related actions. However, we may decide to seek additional financing, and we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists including under "at-the-market" equity offering programs. Any delays in the successful further commercialization and sales of our software products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our equity holders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior 30 to those of existing equity holders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or that we find acceptable. For additional information around the risks associated with our capital needs see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to meet capital needs or as we may otherwise determine to be advisable that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. If we require additional capital and are not able to secure new funding, we may not be able to continue our business operations. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the periods presented: Six Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Net cash used in operating activities $ (12,842 ) $ (13,033 ) $ 191 (1 )% Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (33,129 ) 15,795 (48,924 ) (310 )% Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 34,931 (70 ) 35,001 (50,001 )% Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (11,040 ) $ 2,692 $ (13,732 ) (510 )% Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2025 decreased by $0.2 million to $12.8 million from $13.0 million during the same period in 2024. The decrease to net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net Cash (Used In) Provided by Investing Activities Our net cash used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2025 increased by $48.9 million as compared to the same period in 2024. The increase in cash used in investing activities is almost entirely due to $33.0 million of purchases net of maturities of marketable securities during the six months ended June 30, 2025, as compared to $16.0 million of maturities of marketable securities, during the six months ended June 30, 2024. Net Cash Provided by (Used In) Financing Activities Our net cash provided by financing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2025 increased by $35.0 million as compared to the prior year period. The increase in cash provided by financing activities is almost entirely due to the $34.8 million, after deducting transaction costs, in net proceeds from the sale of our Common Stock and exercise of warrants during the six months ended June 30, 2025. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2026, and we expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 31 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the financial statements. Generally, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions in accordance with GAAP that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies or estimates as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Report.