Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, the Company, Palladyne AI Corp., Palladyne, we, us, and our refers to Palladyne AI Corp., and its subsidiaries, collectively. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (this Report) as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K) and our other filings, including Current Reports on Form 8-K, that we have filed with the SEC through the date of this Report. As discussed in the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements below, in addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements relate to expectations for future financial performance, business strategies or expectations for our business. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to: our ability to successfully pivot our business pursuant to our recently announced strategy to focus on the development of our full-stack, closed-loop autonomy software platform (AI/ML Software Platform); our ability to develop and sell our AI/ML Software Platform and the capabilities and functionality of our AI/ML Software Platform; nature and size of the markets that we are targeting; our software product roadmap, including expected timing of new product releases and target markets; our ability to respond to rapid technological changes; competition from existing or future businesses and technologies; our ability to manage our growth and expenses; our ability to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with the necessary experience, including employees who are instrumental to our new business strategy; our projected financial and operating information and estimates of market size and opportunities; our future financial performance; the impacts of our reductions in force on our cash usage and savings, cost structure and restructuring costs; the impact of natural disasters, health epidemics and global economic and geopolitical conditions and international conflicts on our business and the business of our customers; changes in the markets for our software product; expansion plans and opportunities; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; our ability to defend and the outcome of any known and unknown litigation and regulatory proceedings; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain and protect our brand; our ongoing de minimis hardware development efforts; and 21 other statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words may, can, should, will, estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, aim, target or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Report and our managements current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and, in any event, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those factors described in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this Report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information known to us as of the date of this Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview Our mission is to deliver software to our customers that enhances the utility and functionality of third-party stationary and mobile robotic systems by enabling these systems to quickly observe, learn, reason and act in structured and unstructured environments. Our AI/ML Software Platform is being designed with artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technologies to enable robotic systems to perceive their environment and quickly adapt to changing circumstances by generalizing (i.e., learning) from their past experience using dynamic real-time operations on the edge (i.e., on the robotic system) without extensive programming and with minimal robot training. We believe this human-like ability to learn and adapt will be a key differentiator in helping our customers maintain optimal productivity in dynamic or unstructured environments, where new situations and unexpected challenges are more likely to cause delays and costly downtime. Our value proposition is further enhanced relative to other competitive solutions because robotic systems using our AI/ML Software Platform are not required to be continuously connected to the cloud for our software to function, thereby reducing the performance issues associated with poor connectivity and latency typically associated with processing in the cloud. Our approach also reduces the expense typically associated with transmitting large amounts of data to and from the cloud. As a pioneer in the robotic systems industry, we benefit from both experiences and lessons gained from our 30-plus years, as well as significant investment in our internal research and development efforts. Software has been an integral part of our development efforts over the years. Our vision for our AI/ML Software Platform began in 2017 as a foundational technology to enhance training for the autonomous operation of our own internally developed hardware solutions and progressed to our first contract with the U.S. Department of Defense to develop our CYTAR (Cybernetic Training for Autonomous Robots) AI/ML platform in 2019. We have since continued to develop our AI/ML software both for the U.S. Department of Defense and in connection with our development of commercial robotic systems. We are designing our AI/ML Software Platform to be hardware agnostic in order to be compatible with most industrial robots being sold today and to support specific types of commercially available robots with additional development and the necessary application programming interface (API). The AI/ML Software Platform is expected to enable robotic systems to perform tasks that involve variations in the environment and the objects being manipulated by the robot. Specifically, we expect our AI/ML Software Platform to incorporate internal and external environmental inputs that allow robots to comprehend their environment, determine reasonable behavior given these inputs and to act in real time to achieve the expected task. Each newly learned task will then be incorporated and used to perform future tasks. We believe this closed-loop autonomy approach is the key to how our software can expedite robot training, expand the tasks that a robot can perform, reduce costly workflow stoppages, mitigate downtimes and reduce human labor requirements. We are in the process of completing the development of our full-stack closed-loop autonomy artificial intelligence software which we currently expect to be ready for initial testing by customers in June 2024. We expect to complete initial customer trials throughout the second half of 2024 and to begin generating revenues from commercial customers in 2025. 22 As a result of our refined strategy, we are optimizing our organization in pursuit of this AI/ML Software Platform opportunity and are taking or have taken actions to reduce costs, including our 2023 RIFs (as defined below) and winding down substantially all of our operations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information around the risks associated with our strategic decision-making see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Due to our limited resources and access to capital, and our failure to properly estimate the time and expense required to commercialize our hardware-centric industrial robotics solutions, we made the decision to focus on our AI/ML Software Platform product and to suspend the development and commercialization of our hardware products. These and future decisions about how to use our limited resources may prove to be wrong and may adversely affect our business. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Development, Testing and Commercial Launch of our AI/ML Software Products We currently expect to derive revenue from our AI/ML Software Platform, which is in its development phase. Prior to commercialization, we must complete the development and testing of our product. Whether we are successful depends on many factors, including those discussed under Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business. Such risks may result in delay of the anticipated commercial launch of our software platform, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Financing of Operations Prior to commercialization, we must complete the development and testing of our AI/ML Software Platform. As a result, we will use our cash on hand to develop our software platform and fund operations as we seek to commercialize and achieve revenue from our products. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to sell our software products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital and human capital requirements to develop a commercial version of our software platform prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. In addition, we have taken and continue to take numerous steps to manage our use of cash. For example, on July 12, 2023 (the July 2023 RIF), and on November 14, 2023 (the November 2023 RIF, and together with the July 2023 RIF, the 2023 RIFs), we announced reductions in force intended to further conserve our current cash resources and manage operating expenses. The majority of the cash payments related to the expenses from the July 2023 RIF were paid out during the third quarter of 2023. The majority of the cash payments related to the November 2023 RIF were paid out during the fourth quarter of 2023 and the first quarter of 2024. The November 2023 RIF was substantially completed in the first quarter of 2024. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate for at least the next twelve months without the need to raise additional capital. However, we may need to seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and increase our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our AI/ML Software Platform will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability, our cash flows and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. We will continue to carefully evaluate our use of cash as we pursue our AI/ML Software Platform opportunity. Customer Demand Although demand for AI/ML platforms and applications has grown in recent years, the market for these platforms and applications continues to evolve. The market demand for our software platform is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. While we believe that our AI/ML Software Platform will provide significant benefits and return on investment to customers, as it is a new technology and product, we are dependent on customers who are willing to adopt, purchase, and implement new technologies and products. If customer demand does not develop as expected or we do not accurately forecast pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our AI/ML Software Platform, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Continued Investment and Innovation We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30-plus years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies. Through our previous hardware development efforts, we developed a significant amount of advanced technology that we are leveraging to develop our AI/ML Software Platform. We believe our financial performance is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our advanced AI/ML technologies. It is important that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements and competitive threats, develop and introduce 23 innovative products, enhance our products and generate active market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in these technologies will not be recovered. Geopolitical and Macro-economic Environment Geopolitical and macro-economic factors, such as inflation, interest rates, oil prices, unemployment rates, international conflicts, such as the wars between Israel and Hamas and between Russia and Ukraine, volatility in the stock market and political or social unrest, can have significant impacts on economic activity, which in turn could affect demand for our AI/ML Software Platform or our ability to cost-effectively develop and sell our software platform. Among other things, these and similar factors can affect our ability to hire or retain qualified personnel, our labor and materials costs, the prices we charge for our software platform and the budgets of our customers and their expected return-on-investment from the purchase of a license for our software platform. Many of these factors are outside of our control but can have a significant impact on our business success and operating results. If we are unable to manage our business successfully in response to any such factors, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024, and 2023 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024, and 2023, respectively: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 vs. 2023 Change (In thousands) 2024 2023 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 882 $ 2,296 $ (1,414 ) (62 )% Product Revenue 2,559 2,559 *NM Revenue, net $ 3,441 $ 2,296 $ 1,145 50 % *NM - Not Meaningful Revenue increased by $1.1 million, or 50%, from $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $1.4 million, or 62%, from $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to the completion of certain product development contracts during 2023 that have not yet been replaced with new contracts. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. For the time being, we intend to take on only those development contracts that we believe support and contribute to our AI/ML Software Platform development efforts under our refined sales and product development strategy. As a result, there may be fewer opportunities to replace the completed contracts described above. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales increased by $2.6 million, from the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to legacy product sales during the three months ended March 31, 2024. 24 Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 vs. 2023 Change (In thousands) 2024 2023 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 1,886 $ 1,786 $ 100 6 % Research and development 2,895 9,403 (6,508 ) (69 )% General and administrative 5,125 9,735 (4,610 ) (47 )% Sales and marketing 805 3,741 (2,936 ) (78 )% Intangible amortization expense 819 (819 ) (100 )% Asset write-down and restructuring 83 83 *NM Total operating expenses $ 10,794 $ 25,484 $ (14,690 ) (58 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $0.1 million, or 6%, from $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cost of revenue increased mainly due to increased product costs associated with our product revenue, partially offset by decreased labor and material expenses charged to product development contracts during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Research and Development Research and development expense decreased by $6.5 million, or 69% from $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was driven primarily by reduced labor and labor related expenses due to the 2023 RIFs. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $4.6 million, or 47%, from $9.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $5.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced labor and labor related expenses, including stock-based compensation, due to the 2023 RIFs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased by $2.9 million, or 78%, from $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, to $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This decrease was driven by a decrease in professional service fees related to third-party platform expense utilized in data management of our products and services. Intangible Amortization Expense As a result of our product development reprioritization announced in November 2023, our intangible assets were fully amortized as of December 31, 2023. Asset Write-down and Restructuring Asset write-down and restructuring expenses were $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. 25 Other Income The following table presents other income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 vs. 2023 Change (In thousands) 2024 2023 Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 372 $ 1,099 $ (727 ) (66 )% Loss on warrant liability (248 ) (436 ) 188 (43 )% Other income, net 1,049 (1,049 ) (100 )% Total other income $ 124 $ 1,712 $ (1,588 ) (93 )% Other income decreased by $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior year period, primarily as a result of employee retention credit refunds received in the prior year period and decreased interest income from our investments in marketable securities due to the reduction in invested funds during the current year period. Provision for Income Taxes We had no income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 is based on the Companys estimated annualized effective tax rate for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Companys recognized effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate as the Company recorded net losses during the period with a corresponding full valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets created from the losses. Backlog and Total Estimated Contract Value Our backlog, as of March 31, 2024, was $4.2 million, $2.8 million of which was funded and $1.4 million of which was unfunded. Our backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under contracts or the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date. Our total estimated contract value, which combines backlog with estimated potential contract value, including unexercised options from existing firm contracts, was $14.1 million as of March 31, 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently use cash from equity financings to fund operations and capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. As of March 31, 2024, we had $31.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand will be sufficient to support operations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Report. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to develop and deliver our commercial AI/ML Software Platform and thereby recognize associated revenue and capital requirements to develop our commercial AI/ML Software Platform prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs. Any delays in the successful commercialization of our software product will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance. In addition, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, which may require acquisition capital as well as operational capital for these acquisitions or arrangements. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to facilitate these arrangements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or needed, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, for acquisitions or for other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through additional debt or equity financings or from other sources. We have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash, including conducting the 2023 RIFs, and other related actions, and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. However, we may need to seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and increase our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our software platform will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our equity holders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, 26 preferences or privileges senior to those of existing equity holders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or that we find acceptable. For additional information around the risks associated with our capital needs see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. Our future capital needs may require us to sell additional equity or debt securities that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. If we require additional capital and are not able to secure new funding, we may not be able to continue our business operations. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 vs. 2023 Change (In thousands) 2024 2023 Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,236 ) $ (20,122 ) $ 12,886 (64 )% Net cash provided by investing activities 15,938 10,338 5,600 54 % Net cash used in financing activities (43 ) (7 ) (36 ) 514 % Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents $ 8,659 $ (9,791 ) $ 18,450 (188 )% Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased by $12.9 million to $7.2 million from $20.1 million during the same period in 2023. The decrease to net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a $14.2 million decrease to net loss, which was driven by the 2023 RIFs, partially offset by a net decrease of $2.6 million in non-cash expenses driven mainly by decreased stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets. Additionally, net cash used in operating activities related to changes in operating assets and liabilities decreased by $1.2 million, driven mainly by decreased inventory purchases. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Our net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $5.6 million. The increase in cash provided by investing activities is predominantly due to $16.0 million of maturities of marketable securities and no purchases of marketable securities, during the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the $10.7 million of maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net Cash Used In Financing Activities Our net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was flat as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2025, and we expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 27 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the financial statements. Generally, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions in accordance with GAAP that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies or estimates as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Report.