Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, the Company, Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, "Sarcos," we, us, and our refers to Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, and its subsidiaries, collectively. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (this Report) as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K) and our other filings, including Current Reports on Form 8-K, that we have filed with the SEC through the date of this Report. As discussed in the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements below, in addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements relate to expectations for future financial performance, business strategies or expectations for our business. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to: our ability to successfully pivot our business pursuant to our recently announced strategy to focus on the development of our AI/ML software platform and to suspend our commercialization efforts on our subsea, aviation and solar hardware products; our ongoing limited hardware development efforts; our ability to develop and sell our AI/ML software platform and the capabilities and functionality of our AI/ML software platform; nature and size of the markets that we are targeting; our software product roadmap, including expected timing of new product releases and target markets; competition from existing or future businesses and technologies; our ability to manage our growth and expenses; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with the necessary experience, including employees who are instrumental to our new business strategy; our ability to introduce and sell software products that meet our customers requirements; our projected financial and operating information and estimates of market size and opportunities; our future financial performance; the impacts of our reductions in force on our cash usage and savings, cost structure and restructuring costs; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and global economic and geopolitical conditions and international conflicts on our business and the business of our customers; changes in the markets for our software products; expansion plans and opportunities; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; 24 our ability to defend and the outcome of any known and unknown litigation and regulatory proceedings; our ability to maintain and protect our brand; and other statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words may, can, should, will, estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, aim, target or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Report and our managements current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and, in any event, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those factors described in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this Report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview We are a leader in advanced robotic technology designed to increase the intelligence, efficiency, capability and productivity of advanced robotic systems. Sarcos robotic artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) software enables generalizable autonomy to address challenging, dynamic, environments for industries that require a high degree of adaptability and efficiency. We believe that our AI software platform, which is applicable to the majority of the industrial robots being sold around the world, will enable a dramatic reduction in robotic training times while also making industrial robots far more agile, meaning they can perform more tasks with greater variability, similar to how humans can perform a wide variety of tasks. Among other things, the software platform is being designed to enable robotic manipulators (such as robotic arms) to learn how to work around unforeseen changes or obstacles by building on their initial programming by incorporating internal and external environmental inputs that allow them to understand their environment, determine reasonable behavior in unforeseen situations and quickly apply them to the task at hand. Each newly learned task will then be incorporated and used to perform future tasks. We believe this closed-loop autonomy approach is the key to how our software will help reduce costly workflow stoppages and prevent unnecessary downtimes, and that our platform will have numerous other applications as well. On November 14, 2023, we announced a pivot in strategy to prioritize the development of our commercial AI/ML software platform and suspend further commercialization efforts on our subsea, aviation and solar robotics hardware programs. We will continue some hardware system research and development efforts on a substantially reduced scale, in part to support our software development efforts. After continued analysis of our products and programs and careful consideration of our available cash and other resources, as well as third party dependencies, customer decision timing, and the cost and time to develop and achieve a significant and steady revenue stream from our hardware products, we concluded that the focusing on our AI/ML software platform and suspending our hardware commercialization efforts gave us the best risk-adjusted opportunity to meet our previously announced goal of pursuing significant near-term revenue tied to acute customer needs and reduce our capital requirements and related risks in line with available resources. We believe that the expected capabilities described above, combined with a large potential addressable market, create an opportunity to build a robust software business that has the potential to scale at a substantially faster rate than our hardware solutions. We expect that the development of our AI/ML software platform will only include a minor hardware development component in support of the AI/ML software platform. We also intend to address the subsea, aviation and solar markets through our AI/ML software platform. This pivot in strategy builds on our prior announcement, on July 12, 2023, that we had refined our strategy to focus on products that we believed had the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities, which at the time included our Guardian Sea Class system, certain aviation solutions (baggage handling and exterior aircraft maintenance), a solar (solar field panel installation) solution and our commercial AI/ML software platform to enable generalizable autonomy. 25 We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30-plus years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies and our extensive patent portfolio. Through our development efforts, including our software development efforts, on our hardware products such as the Guardian XO, Guardian XT, Guardian XM and Guardian Sea Class, we have developed a significant amount of advanced technology that we are leveraging to develop our AI/ML software platform. Our extensive robotics history gives us valuable perspective on how to use software to tackle the challenges associated with training and managing industrial robots in complex and dynamic environments. Our AI/ML software platform was initially conceived as a foundational technology to enhance training and for the autonomous operation of our own internally developed hardware solutions known as Cybernetic Training for Autonomous Robots, or CYTAR (CYTAR). Our vision for using AI/ML software with our robotic systems began in 2017. In 2019, we made our first CYTAR government proposal, and we began significant development work in 2020. As we continued the development of our AI/ML software platform for use with our robotic systems and solutions, we realized that we could greatly expand our potential addressable market by de-coupling our platform from our own systems and applying it to a wide range of third party robotics systems, from fixed in place industrial robots and cobots to mobile systems including drones, autonomous underwater vehicles and remotely operated vehicles. Further exploration of this opportunity over the past year led us to conclude that the ability to expedite training of new robot deployments and unlock greater value from existing deployments through evolution and adaptability was a need that we could address with our AI/ML software platform. We currently intend to offer our commercial AI/ML software through a software-as-a-service (SaaS) revenue model. We continue to evaluate our strategy and path to near-term revenue growth. As a result of our refined strategy we are optimizing our organization in pursuit of this AI/ML software platform opportunity and will reduce costs, including reducing headcount, shifting all operations to the Salt Lake City, Utah location and shutting down our facilities in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information around the risks associated with our strategy decision-making see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Due to our limited resources and access to capital, we must make decisions on the allocation of resources and have discontinued development and commercialization of certain products; these decisions may prove to be wrong and may adversely affect our business. Continuing Impact of COVID-19 The global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken in response have resulted in significant disruptions to how we operate our business. For example, we have experienced and may continue to experience disruptions in our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, due in part to the historical impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the conditions caused by the pandemic have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect, among other things, our suppliers, partners, customers demand for our software products and the ability to test and assess our software products with potential customers, which have, and may continue to, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The duration and extent of impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be accurately predicted at this time and will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Development, Testing and Commercial Launch of our Software Products After considering development costs, market opportunity, and our available resources as discussed above, we are focusing our business efforts on commercializing our AI/ML software platform. We believe that our ability to successfully develop, launch and sell this commercial software product will determine our near- to mid-term financial success. Whether we are successful depends on many factors, including those discussed under Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business. Such risks may result in delay of the anticipated commercial launch of our software platform, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Financing of Operations Prior to commercialization, we must complete the development and testing of our AI/ML software platform. As a result, we will use our cash on hand to develop our software platform and fund operations as we seek to commercialize and achieve revenue from the sale of the product. We currently expect to launch the commercial AI/ML software platform product during the first half of 2024 and begin to recognize revenue from sales in the second half of 2024. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to sell our software products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital and human capital requirements to develop a commercial version of our software platform prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. In addition, we have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash. For example, on July 12, 2023 and on November 14, 2023 we announced reductions in force (each a RIF and together the RIFs) intended to further conserve our current cash resources and manage operating expenses. The 26 majority of the cash payments related to the expenses from the RIF announced on July 12, 2023 (July RIF) were paid out during the third quarter of 2023. The July RIF is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. The majority of the cash payments related to the RIF announced on November 14, 2023 (November RIF) will be paid out during the fourth quarter of 2023 and the first quarter of 2024. The November RIF is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2024. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate well into 2025 without the need to raise additional capital. However, we may need to seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and increase our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our AI/ML software platform will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability, our cash flows and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. Customer Demand Although demand for AI/ML platforms and applications has grown in recent years, the market for these platforms and applications continues to evolve. The market demand for our software products is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. If customer demand does not develop as expected or we do not accurately forecast pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our AI/ML software platform product, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Continued Investment and Innovation We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30-plus years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies and our extensive patent portfolio. Through our development efforts on our hardware products such as the Guardian XO, Guardian XT, Guardian XM and Guardian Sea Class, we have developed a significant amount of advanced technology that we are leveraging to develop our AI/ML software platform. We believe our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position and further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. It is important that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements and competitive threats, develop and introduce innovative products, enhance our products and generate active market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in these technologies will not be recovered. Geopolitical and Macro-economic Environment Geopolitical and macro-economic factors, such as inflation, rising interest rates, oil prices, unemployment rates, international conflicts, such as the wars between Israel and Hamas and between Russia and Ukraine, volatility in the stock market and political or social unrest, can have significant impacts on economic activity, which in turn could affect demand for our AI/ML software platform product or our ability to cost-effectively develop and sell our software platform. Among other things, these and similar factors can affect our ability to hire or retain qualified personnel, our labor and materials costs, the prices we charge for our software platform and the budgets of our customers and their expected return-on-investment from the purchase of or subscription for our software platform. Many of these factors are outside of our control but can have a significant impact on our business success and operating results. If we are unable to manage our business successfully in response to any such factors, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Results of Operations The discussion below regarding our results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 includes the financial results of RE2 beginning on April 25, 2022, the acquisition date through September 30, 2023. Our results do not include RE2s financial information prior to the acquisition. Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2023, and 2022 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 1,044 $ 4,488 $ (3,444 ) (77 )% Product Revenue 783 179 604 337 % Revenue, net $ 1,827 $ 4,667 $ (2,840 ) (61 )% 27 Revenue decreased by $2.8 million, or 61%, from $4.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $3.4 million, or 77%, from $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the completion of certain product development contracts during 2023 that have not yet been replaced with new contracts. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. For the time being, we intend to take on only those development contracts that we believe support and contribute to our AI/ML software platform development efforts under our refined sales and product development strategy. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales increased by $0.6 million, or 337%, from $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to the sale of two Guardian Sea Class systems during the three months ended September 30, 2023. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 1,222 $ 3,578 $ (2,356 ) (66 )% Research and development 10,011 10,497 (486 ) (5 )% General and administrative 7,557 14,646 (7,089 ) (48 )% Sales and marketing 1,750 2,405 (655 ) (27 )% Intangible amortization expense 819 791 28 4 % Asset write-down and restructuring 11,222 11,222 *NM Total operating expenses $ 32,581 $ 31,917 $ 664 2 % *NM - Not Meaningful Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $2.4 million, or 66%, from $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. Cost of revenue decreased mainly due to decreased labor and material expenses charged to product development contracts during the three months ended September 30, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expense decreased by $0.5 million, or 5% from $10.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $10.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was driven primarily by reduced third-party professional service expense during the current year period as part of our prioritization efforts on development and commercialization of our products. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $7.1 million, or 48%, from $14.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $7.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense of $6.8 million due to certain awards vesting in the prior year and reduced outstanding unvested awards due to employee terminations during the current year period. 28 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense decreased by $0.7 million, or 27%, from $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, to $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was driven by a decrease in professional service fees related to third-party platform expense utilized in data management of our products and services. Intangible Amortization Expense Intangible amortization expense was flat at $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022. Asset Write-down and Restructuring Asset write-down and restructuring expenses were $11.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, which includes $1.1 million in severance and benefit payments, $4.4 million related to the acceleration of stock-based compensation expense resulting from the early termination of our redemption right over certain shares held by our former Chief Operating Officer in connection with the termination of his employment, a write-down of inventory of $5.2 million, and $0.5 million related to the write-down of certain assets. We anticipate incurring additional restructuring expenses, related to the restructuring actions taken during 2023, in the range of $22 million to $24 million during the fourth quarter of 2023 and the first quarter of 2024. These expenses include approximately $4 million dollars in personnel expenses such as salaries, wages, benefits and severance related to the eliminated headcount. The remainder will be non-cash expenses related to expected accelerated amortization of intangible and other assets due to the strategic shift initiated during the fourth quarter. Other Income The following table presents other income for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 806 $ 806 $ % Gain on warrant liability 96 1,484 (1,388 ) (94 )% Other loss, net 871 (4 ) 875 (21,875 )% Total other income $ 1,773 $ 2,286 $ (513 ) (22 )% Other income decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 as compared to the prior year period, as a result of the decrease in unrealized mark-to-market gain on our outstanding private placement warrants, partially offset by increased other income related to the employee retention credit refund received during the current year period. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense was $0 for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to $2.5 million in income tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The income tax benefit recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2022 is due to the removal of a portion of our previously recorded valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets associated with net deferred tax liabilities recorded as part of the acquisition of RE2, resulting in an income tax benefit recognized during the prior year quarter. Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 4,614 $ 8,203 $ (3,589 ) (44 )% Product Revenue 786 245 541 221 % Revenue, net $ 5,400 $ 8,448 $ (3,048 ) (36 )% 29 Revenue decreased by $3.0 million, or 36%, from $8.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $5.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $3.6 million, or 44%, from $8.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 to $4.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the completion of certain product development contracts during 2023 that have not yet been replaced with new contracts. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. For the time being, we intend to take on only those development contracts that we believe support and contribute to our AI/ML software platform development efforts under our refined sales and product development strategy. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales increased by $0.5 million, or 221%, from $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to the sale of two Guardian Sea Class systems during the current year period. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 3,951 $ 7,212 $ (3,261 ) (45 )% Research and development 31,120 23,947 7,173 30 % General and administrative 25,544 50,584 (25,040 ) (50 )% Sales and marketing 9,901 7,202 2,699 37 % Intangible amortization expense 2,457 1,365 1,092 80 % Asset write-down and restructuring 16,328 16,328 *NM Total operating expenses $ 89,301 $ 90,310 $ (1,009 ) (1 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 45%, from $7.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $4.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Cost of revenue decreased mainly due to decreased labor and material expense charged to product development contracts during the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $7.2 million, or 30% from $23.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $31.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in labor and overhead expense as a result of increased headcount (due in part to the RE2 acquisition) and the shift of labor from cost of revenue to research and development due to the timing of new product development contracts being signed and the focus on new product development and commercialization efforts. As a result, allocated overhead and fringe related costs also increased due to the increase in labor costs. We expect that future research and development costs will decrease significantly due to the reduction in headcount actions taken during 2023 and other cost savings resulting from the pivot in strategy to prioritize the AI/ML software development and discontinue other research and development efforts. 30 General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $25.0 million, or 50%, from $50.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $25.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense of $23.6 million due to certain awards vesting in the prior year. In addition to the decrease in stock-based compensation expense, business insurance expenses decreased during the current year period to more favorable rates resulting from the latest renewal and legal fees decreased in comparison to the prior year due to the lack of acquisition-related legal expenses arising from the RE2 acquisition during the prior year period. We also expect that future general and administrative expenses will decrease significantly due to the reduction in headcount actions taken during 2023 and other cost savings resulting from our pivot in strategy to prioritize the AI/ML software development with a lower overall cost structure. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $2.7 million, or 37%, from $7.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $9.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was driven by an increase in professional service fees related to third-party platform expense utilized in data management of our products and services, increased promotional and event expense during the current year period, and increased expenses related to additional headcount due in part to our RE2 acquisition. We also expect that future sales and marketing expenses will decrease significantly due to the reduction in headcount actions taken during 2023 and other cost savings resulting from our pivot in strategy to prioritize the AI/ML software development with a lower overall cost structure. Intangible Amortization Expense Intangible amortization expense increased by $1.1 million, from $1.4 million for nine months ended September 30, 2022, to $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The increase in intangible amortization expense is due to the recognition of amortization expenses on identified intangible assets recorded as part of the RE2 acquisition. Asset Write-down and Restructuring Asset write-down and restructuring expenses were $16.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, which includes a write-down of inventory of $9.6 million, a $1.2 million impairment charge for certain assets as a result our product development reprioritization, $1.1 million in severance and benefit payments, and $4.4 million due to the acceleration of stock-based compensation expense resulting from the early termination of our redemption right over certain shares held by our former Chief Operating Officer in connection with the termination of his employment. Other Income The following table presents other income for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 2,779 $ 965 $ 1,814 188 % Gain on warrant liability 99 12,011 (11,912 ) (99 )% Other income, net 1,909 (4 ) 1,913 (47,825 )% Total other income $ 4,787 $ 12,972 $ (8,185 ) (63 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Other income decreased by $8.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 as compared to the prior year period as a result of the decrease in unrealized mark-to-market gain on our outstanding private placement warrants, partially offset by increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities and increased other income related to employee retention credit refunds received during the current year. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense was $3 thousand for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to $4.1 million in income tax benefit for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. The income tax benefit recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 is due to the removal of a portion of our previously recorded valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets associated with net deferred tax liabilities recorded as part of the acquisition of RE2, resulting in an income tax benefit recognized during the prior year period. 31 Backlog and Total Estimated Contract Value Our backlog, as of September 30, 2023, was $9.2 million, $7.4 million of which was funded and $1.8 million of which was unfunded. Our backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under contracts or the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date. Our total estimated contract value, which combines backlog with estimated potential contract value, including unexercised options from existing firm contracts, was $19.1 million as of September 30, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently use cash to fund operations and capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. As of September 30, 2023, we had $55.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand will be sufficient to support operations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Report. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to develop and deliver our commercial AI/ML software platform products and thereby recognize associated revenue and capital requirements to develop our commercial AI/ML software platform prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs. Any delays in the successful commercialization of our software products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance. In addition, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, which may require acquisition capital as well as operational capital for these acquisitions or arrangements. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to facilitate these arrangements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or needed, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, for acquisitions or for other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through additional debt or equity financings or from other sources. We have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash, including conducting the RIFs announced on July 12, 2023 and November 14, 2023, and other related actions, and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate well into 2025 without the need to raise additional capital. However, we may need to seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and increase our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our software platform will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our equity holders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing equity holders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or that we find acceptable. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Net cash used in operating activities $ (60,123 ) $ (44,448 ) $ (15,675 ) 35 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 60,345 (149,429 ) 209,774 (140 )% Net cash used in financing activities (71 ) (7,108 ) 7,037 (99 )% Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents $ 151 $ (200,985 ) $ 201,136 (100 )% Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $15.7 million to $60.1 million from $44.4 million during the same period in 2022. The increase to net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a $14.3 million increase to net loss, a net increase of $4.2 million in non-cash expenses driven mainly by increases in asset write-down expenses and decreased gains on warrant liability revaluation, offset partially by decreased stock-based compensation. Additionally, net 32 cash used in operating activities related to changes in operating assets and liabilities increased by $5.6 million, driven mainly by increased inventory purchases. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Our net cash provided by investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $209.8 million. The increase in cash provided by investing activities is predominantly due to $61.4 million of maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, during the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to the $118.7 million of purchase of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $29.7 million of net cash that was included as part of the purchase consideration for the RE2 acquisition during the nine months ended September 30, 2022. Net Cash Used In Financing Activities Our net cash used in financing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2023 decreased by $7.0 million as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in financing activities was mainly due to a $7.6 million decrease in funds used to repurchase shares of common stock that were withheld for payment of tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of equity awards. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2025, and we expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the financial statements. Generally, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions in accordance with GAAP that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies or estimates as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Report.