Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Rotor Acquisition Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Rotor Sponsor LLC,. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the completion of the Proposed Business Combination (as defined below), the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements, including that the conditions of the Proposed Business Combination are not satisfied. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for its Initial Public Offering filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on August 27, 2020 for the purpose of effectuating a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrant, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Proposed Business Combination On April 5, 2021, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, by and among the Company, Merger Sub and Sarcos, as further described in Note 1 to the financial statement included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from August 27, 2020 (inception) through June 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of earnings on investments held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $14,001,087, which consisted of formation and operational costs of $1,787,623 and change in fair value of warrant liability of $12,220,600 , offset by interest earned on investments held in Trust Account of $4,721 and unrealized gain on investments held in our Trust Account of $2,415. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $5,047,405, which consisted of formation and operational costs of $5,301,491 and transaction costs associated with the IPO of $603,941, loss on initial issuance of private warrants of $2,980,700, offset by change in fair value of warrant liability of $3,792,600 , interest earned on investments held in Trust Account of $4,721, and unrealized gain on investments held in Trust Account of $41,406. 18 Liquidity and Capital Resources On January 20, 2021, we completed the Initial Public Offering of 27,600,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the shares of Class A common stock included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 3,600,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $276,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we completed the sale of 7,270,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and, collectively, the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Rotor Sponsor LLC, an affiliate of the Companys officers and directors (the Sponsor), and certain funds and accounts managed by two qualified institutional buyers, generating gross proceeds of $7,270,000. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering on January 20, 2021, an amount of $276,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $15,562,855 in Initial Public Offering related costs, including $5,520,000 of underwriting fees, 9,660,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $382,855 of other costs. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $1,682,607. Net loss of $5,047,405 was affected by the change in fair value of warrant liability of $3,792,600, loss on initial issuance of private warrants of $2,980,700, transaction costs associated with the IPO of $603,941, interest earned on investments held in Trust Account of $4,721, and an unrealized gain on investments held in the Trust Account of $41,406. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $3,618,884 of cash for operating activities. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash and investments held in the Trust Account of $276,046,127 (including approximately $46,127 of interest income and unrealized gains, net of unrealized losses) consisting of money market funds. Earnings on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through June 30, 2021, we have not withdrawn any interest earned from the Trust Account. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash of $14,538. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. The Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs in pursuit of its financing and acquisition plans. Accordingly, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 19 Contractual obligations The underwriter is entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $9,660,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriter from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. The Company pays to two officers an aggregate amount of $15,000 per month for services rendered to the Company. There is no contractual obligation requiring the Company to make these payments and it may determine to cease doing so at any time. Prior to the Closing, the Company, Sponsor, and certain holders of Class B Common Stock in the Company entered into the Waiver Agreement. For more information, see the description of the Founder Shares in Note 5 above. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company entered into Subscription Agreements with PIPE Investors pursuant to which, among other things, the PIPE Investors have agreed to subscribe for and purchase an aggregate of 22,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company, at a per share price of $10.00 for an aggregate purchase price of $220 million concurrent with the Closing. For more information, see the description of the Subscription Agreements in Note 6 above. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of Condensed Consolidated Financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liability We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to our own ordinary shares, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Income Per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, if any, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding for the period. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for and non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income less income attributable to Class A common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of shares of non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period presented. 20 Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our Condensed Consolidated Financial statements. In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2022 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that ASU 2020-06 would have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Merger Agreement On April 5, 2021, the Company entered into a definitive business combination agreement with Sarcos Corp., a Utah corporation. Completion of the transaction is subject to approval of the Companys stockholders and the satisfaction or waiver of certain other customary closing conditions.