Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, the Company, Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, "Sarcos," we, us, and our refers to Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, and its subsidiaries, collectively. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (this Report) as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K) and our other filings, including Current Reports on Form 8-K, that we have filed with the SEC through the date of this Report. As discussed in the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements below, in addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements relate to expectations for future financial performance, business strategies or expectations for our business. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to: our ability to sell our products to new and existing customers; our ability to successfully integrate RE2 and achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition; our product roadmap, including the expected timing of new product releases; our ability to manage and overcome supply chain challenges, including increases in the cost of and an interruption in the supply or availability of components, parts and materials; competition from existing or future businesses and technologies; our ability to manage our growth and expenses; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applicable to our business; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with the necessary experience; our ability to introduce new products that meet our customers requirements and to successfully transition to high volume manufacturing of our products by third-party manufacturers or by us; our projected financial and operating information and estimates of market size and opportunities; our future financial performance; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and global economic and geopolitical conditions on our business and the business of our customers; changes in the market for our products and services; expansion plans and opportunities, including plans to expand our product availability globally; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; our ability to defend and the outcome of any known and unknown litigation and regulatory proceedings; our ability to maintain and protect our brand; and other statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words may, can, should, will, estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, aim, target or similar expressions. 22 These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Report and our managements current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and, in any event, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those factors described in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this Report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview We are a technology leader in the design, development and manufacture of advanced robotic systems and solutions that redefine human possibilities. We design and produce highly-dexterous mobile robotic systems and solutions for use in dynamic and unstructured environments. Our mission is to increase worker productivity and longevity and prevent injuries through robotics. Our robotic systems are designed to augment and increase human productivity, rather than replace humans, by combining human intelligence, instinct and judgment with the strength, endurance and precision of machines. Our core systems consist of the Guardian XM, Guardian XT and Guardian Sea Class teleoperated/semi-autonomous systems and the Guardian XO exoskeleton. We adapt these core systems for specific use-cases based on the capabilities and characteristics of each system to create solutions. We may also combine aspects of multiple systems or create a specific system for a particular solution. Based on feedback from our development customers and potential commercial customers, we have decided to offer our systems and solutions primarily through a sales business model where the customer purchases a system or solution for a one-time, upfront amount. We also plan to offer software upgrades and additional capabilities and to offer for sale add-on hardware components (such as additional interchangeable end-effectors). Response to COVID-19 On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern and on March 11, 2020, declared it to be a pandemic. Actions taken around the world to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 include restrictions on travel, quarantines in certain areas and forced closures for certain types of public places and businesses. COVID-19 and actions taken to mitigate its spread have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the economies and financial markets of many countries, including the geographies in which Sarcos operates. We took several actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that resulted in significant disruptions to how we operate our business. Our customers and partners adopted similar policies. These actions and policies of ours and our customers and partners are evolving as laws, regulations and recommendations evolve. Although many of these measures are no longer in effect, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, an adverse impact on certain parts of our business as a result of measures to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic and their resulting economic effects. Further, discontinued measures could be reinstituted, for example as a result of government requirements or in response to new variants of COVID-19. We have experienced and may continue to experience disruptions in our supply chain, due in part to the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Depending upon the duration of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the associated business interruptions, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and partners may suspend or delay their engagements with us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to meet current timelines. In an effort to manage potential supply chain risks, in particular long and unpredictable lead-times, we have accelerated and expect to continue to accelerate purchases of various materials, parts and components for the foreseeable future to support product development and current and future production of our commercial units, which has increased and will likely continue to increase our use of cash. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected and 23 may continue to affect our ability to recruit skilled employees to join our team. The conditions caused by the pandemic have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect, among other things, demand for our products and the ability to test and assess our robotic systems with potential customers any of which adversely affects our business, results of operations and financial condition. The duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts cannot be accurately predicted at this time, and the ultimate direct and indirect impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain. We will continue to monitor the global impact of COVID-19 and its effects on our business and operations closely. We do not yet know the full extent of potential impacts on our business or operations. In particular, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Given this uncertainty, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Development, Testing and Commercial Launch of our Core Products We expect that revenue from the commercial launch of teleoperated/semi-autonomous commercial products will determine our near-term financial success. We began initial production of commercial units of the Guardian XM during September 2022 and initial production of commercial units of the Guardian XT during December 2022. Development and production priorities are driven by a combination of our views and expectations of customer demand, supply chain constraints and overall manufacturing and product technical readiness. We expect that as our products continue to be tested, begin production and experience the rigors of regular customer use, we will continue to learn and make improvements to our products by integrating design and product feedback into current or future products. Timelines may be delayed, including due to challenges in recruiting skilled employees, difficulties in securing components and materials, development delays, difficulties relating to manufacturing of the units and other factors discussed under Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Such challenges may result in further delay of the anticipated commercial launch of one or more of our products, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Financing of Operations Prior to commercialization, we must complete the development, testing and manufacturing requirements of our products. As a result, we will spend a material portion of our cash on hand to develop our products and fund operations for the foreseeable future. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to manufacture, sell and deliver commercial products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital requirements to build commercial products prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. We currently expect to obtain outside financing to help cover production costs for product orders. In addition, we have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. We are satisfied with our liquidity and currently have no plans to do an equity financing in 2023. However, we may seek additional capital from time to time to bolster our cash reserves, reduce our financial risk, help finance product manufacturing and inventory costs and pursue business objectives. We will continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and could change our plans if we determine it to be necessary or advisable. Any delays in the successful completion of the commercialization of our products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance. Acquisition and Integration of RE2 On April 25, 2022, we acquired RE2, Inc., a Pittsburgh, PA based developer of manipulator arms with human-like performance, intuitive robot interfaces and advanced autonomy capabilities for use in any environment. The results presented and discussed below include the activity for RE2 from the acquisition date through March 31, 2023. Our results do not include RE2s financial information prior to the acquisition. Customer Demand Although we have only recently begun production of commercial units of some of our products in limited quantities, we have received interest from potential customers that have tested or witnessed demonstrations of our pre-commercial units. However, because our robotic systems represent a new product category in markets that currently rely generally on conventional, manual systems, the market demand for our products is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. If customer demand does not develop as expected or we do not accurately forecast pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 24 Manufacturing of Our Products To the extent we obtain commercial orders for our products, we will need to manufacture and deliver them to our customers. We have recently entered into an agreement with a third-party contract manufacturer and expect to generally outsource manufacturing of our products over time. However, engaging with a manufacturing partner will likely require significant time, ramp-up, testing and coordination before high-volume production capability by the partner is achieved. We currently do not anticipate high-volume production by our contract manufacturing partner to be in place until at least the end of 2023. We expect that this contract manufacturing partner will initially focus on helping us produce product sub-systems. We expect that in 2023 we will have the internal capability to manufacture a total of between 300 500 systems, depending on the mix. However, we do not believe that we will use all of that capacity in 2023. For additional information around the risks associated with contract manufacturing see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Our expected transition to an outsourced manufacturing business model may not be successful, which could harm our ability to deliver products and recognize revenue. Continued Investment and Innovation We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30 years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies and our extensive patent portfolio. However, our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position and further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. It is important that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements, develop and introduce innovative new products, enhance and service existing products and generate active market demand for our robotic systems. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments into these technologies will not be recovered. Geopolitical and Macro-economic Environment Geopolitical and macro-economic factors, such as inflation, rising interest rates, oil prices, unemployment rates, the war in Ukraine, volatility in the stock market and political or social unrest, can have significant impacts on economic activity, which in turn could affect demand for our products or our ability to cost-effectively develop, sell and manufacture our products. Among other things, these and similar factors can affect our supply chain, our ability to hire qualified personnel, our labor and materials costs, the prices we charge for our products and the budgets of our customers and their expected return-on-investment from the purchase of or subscription for our products. Many of these factors are outside of our control but can have a significant impact on our business success and operating results. If we are unable to manage our business successfully in response to any such factors, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Results of Operations The discussion below regarding our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023, includes the financial results of RE2 beginning on the acquisition date through March 31, 2023. Our results do not include RE2s financial information prior to the acquisition. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 2,296 $ 733 $ 1,563 213 % Product Revenue 10 (10 ) (100 )% Revenue, net $ 2,296 $ 743 $ 1,553 209 % Revenue increased by $1.6 million, or 209%, from $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Revenue derived from product development contract revenue increased by $1.6 million, or 213%, from $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to revenue recognized from contracts acquired as part of the RE2 acquisition. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to increase on a 25 year over year basis due to the inclusion of RE2 product development contract revenue for the full year and as we bring on additional development contracts that support our commercialization efforts. As we focus on initial commercial product sales of our core products, our product development contract revenue is expected to decrease as a percentage of total revenue. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales was not significant for the three months ended March 31, 2022 or the three months ended March 31, 2023. The lack of product sales was due to our focus on the commercialization of our core products. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 1,786 $ 488 $ 1,298 266 % Research and development 9,403 5,881 3,522 60 % General and administrative 9,735 17,792 (8,057 ) (45 )% Sales and marketing 3,741 2,211 1,530 69 % Intangible amortization expense 819 819 *NM Total operating expenses $ 25,484 $ 26,372 $ (888 ) (3 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased by $1.3 million, or 266%, from $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cost of revenue increased significantly mainly due to the increase in revenue from the inclusion of RE2's product development contract revenue and the costs associated with that revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $3.5 million, or 60% from $5.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in labor and overhead expense as a result of increased headcount (due in part to the RE2 acquisition) and increased direct materials charges. Additionally, allocated overhead and fringe related costs increased due to the increase in labor costs in the current year. We expect research and development expenses to decrease during 2023 on a year-over-year basis as we reduce our use of third-party research and development resources in our efforts to refine our existing products and further enhance our efforts on our future products and software. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses decreased by $8.1 million, or 45%, from $17.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to $9.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense of $8.3 million due to certain awards vesting in the prior year. With the exception of stock-based compensation expense, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase slightly during 2023 on a year-over-year basis due to commercialization efforts and public company compliance requirements, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue. 26 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.5 million, or 69%, from $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was driven by an increase in professional service fees due to the engagement of a third-party vendor utilized in data management of our products and services, and increased expenses related to additional headcount due in part to our RE2 acquisition. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase during 2023 on a year-over-year basis as our revenue increases. Intangible Amortization Expense Intangible amortization expenses increased by $0.8 million, from $0.0 million for three months ended March 31, 2022, to $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in intangible amortization expense is due to the recognition of amortization expenses on identified intangible assets recorded as part of the RE2 acquisition. Other Income The following table presents other income for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Other income Interest income (expense), net $ 1,099 $ 11 $ 1,088 9,891 % (Loss) gain on warrant liability (436 ) 6,414 (6,850 ) (107 )% Other income, net 1,049 2 1,047 52,350 % Total other income $ 1,712 $ 6,427 $ (4,715 ) (73 )% Other income decreased by $4.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year period, as a result of the decrease in unrealized mark-to-market gain on our outstanding private placement warrants, partially offset by increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities and increased other income related to the employee retention credit. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently use cash to fund operations and capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. As of March 31, 2023, we had $94.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand will be sufficient to support operations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Report; however, we may need to secure additional financing prior to achieving positive operating cash flows, which we do not expect to occur until 2025 at the earliest. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to manufacture and deliver commercial products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital requirements to build commercial products prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. Any delays in the successful completion of the commercialization of our products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance. In addition, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, which may require acquisition capital as well as operational capital for these acquisitions or arrangements. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to facilitate these arrangements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We expect our operating and capital expenditures to increase as we increase headcount, expand our operations and grow our customer base. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, for acquisitions or for other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through additional debt or equity financings or from other sources. We currently expect to obtain outside financing to help cover production costs for product orders. In addition, we have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. We are satisfied with our liquidity and currently have no plans to do an equity financing in 2023. However, we may seek additional capital from time to time to bolster our cash reserves, reduce our financial risk, help finance product manufacturing and inventory costs and pursue business objectives. We will continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and could change our plans if we determine it to be necessary or advisable. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our equity holders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have 27 rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing equity holders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or that we find acceptable. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Net cash used in operating activities $ (20,122 ) $ (12,452 ) $ (7,670 ) 62 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 10,338 (514 ) 10,852 (2,111 )% Net cash used in financing activities (7 ) (5,190 ) 5,183 (100 )% Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents $ (9,791 ) $ (18,156 ) $ 8,365 (46 )% Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $7.7 million to $20.1 million from $12.5 million during the same period in 2022. The increase to net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a $2.3 million increase to net loss, a net decrease of $1.1 million in non-cash expenses driven mainly by decreased stock-based compensation partially offset by increased losses on warrant liability revaluation. Additionally, net cash used in operating activities related to changes in operating assets and liabilities increased by $4.3 million, which was mainly due to increases to inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets and a decrease in accounts payable, partially offset by decreases in unbilled receivables. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Our net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $10.9 million. The increase in cash provided by investing activities is predominantly due to $10.7 million of maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net Cash Used In Financing Activities Our overall cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $5.2 million as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in financing activities was mainly due to a $5.2 million decrease in funds used to repurchase shares of common stock that were withheld for payment of tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of equity awards. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2025, and we expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 28 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the financial statements. Generally, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions in accordance with GAAP that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies or estimates as disclosed in our 2022 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Report.