Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and the risks described elsewhere in this Report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. This Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this Report or other risks that we currently deem immaterial or that may be unknown to us. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early stage company with a history of losses, and expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and are likely to continue to incur losses and negative cash flows from operations in the near term. We incurred a net loss of $72.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and a net loss of $115.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $490.8 million and working capital of $38.3 million. We expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. Our shift in product development and commercialization strategy to focus on our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products has made forecasting the timing and amounts of expected revenue and our quarterly and annual results more challenging, in particular because the sales cycle, product acceptance, product pricing and customer adoption rates are uncertain. Even if we are able to successfully develop our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and attract customers for commercial sales, we may not become profitable. Our potential profitability is dependent upon the successful development, commercial introduction and adoption on a large scale of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and our ability to lower costs, none of which may occur. We may not be successful in achieving meaningful revenues from these products. Further, the timing, amount and growth rate of any such revenues are unknown. We are likely to continue to incur losses in future periods as we: continue to design, develop and commercialize our products; conduct our sales and marketing activities and develop our sales and customer service capabilities; continue to invest in our AI/ML Foundational Technology's technology infrastructure and cybersecurity measures, policies and controls; and maintain our general and administrative functions and systems to support our operations and to operate as a publicly-traded company. Because we will incur costs and expenses from these and other efforts before we receive significant licensing revenue, we expect to incur losses in future periods, which could be significant. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that these efforts may result in less than expected or no additional revenue, which would further increase our losses and affect our ability to continue operations. We may have to obtain additional capital from external sources, and additional financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or to our stockholders. See "Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to meet capital needs or as we may otherwise determine to be advisable that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. If we require additional capital and are not able to secure new funding, we may not be able to continue our business operations." Our operating and financial projections rely on management assumptions and analyses. If these assumptions or analyses prove to be incorrect, as they often have in the past, our actual operating results may be materially different from our expected or forecasted results. We are an early stage company, with no experience commercializing software products. Our projected financial and operating information reflect estimates of future performance and are based on multiple business, financial, technical and operational assumptions, including product strategy, timely hiring or retention of needed personnel, timing and success of commercial launch of our software products, the level of demand for our software products, the size of our target markets, the performance and utilization of our software products, product pricing and the nature and length of the sales cycle. However, given our limited commercial experience, many of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect. Projections and other statements about future expectations are forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to significant risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control (in addition to the information contained in these Risk Factors, see "Special Note 16 Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). We have yet to achieve positive operating cash flow, and our ability to generate positive cash flow is uncertain. We had negative cash flow from operating activities of $22.6 million and $76.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We expect to continue to have negative cash flow from operating activities for the foreseeable future as we expect to incur research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses in our efforts to commercialize our software products, increase sales and engage in continuous development work. We may not achieve positive cash flow in the near future or at all. Our business also may at times require significant amounts of working capital to support sales growth or additional product development efforts. An inability to generate positive cash flow for the near term may adversely affect our ability to raise capital for our business on reasonable terms, adversely affect our ability to pursue our business objectives, diminish customer willingness to enter into transactions with us and have other adverse effects, all of which would affect our ability to continue operations. See "We are an early stage company with a history of losses, and expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future." We have no previous history or experience with commercializing software products and may not be able to do so efficiently, effectively or at all. We were unsuccessful in our efforts to commercialize the hardware technologies that we and our predecessor companies developed over the past several decades. We have no previous history or experience commercializing AI/ML software products and may not be able to do so efficiently or effectively or at all. Further, historically we were unsuccessful in our efforts to commercialize our hardware products. Moreover, commercialization may be delayed due to the challenges discussed under "Successful commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products may be delayed beyond our current expectations and therefore product availability to customers, customer acquisition and receipt of software licensing revenue could be delayed." The development of our software products is a complex and evolving process that involves the development of new and emerging technologies, continued investment, including in privacy, safety and security efforts and potential collaborations with other companies, developers, partners and other participants. Market acceptance of our software products is uncertain and we may need to change product features to meet customer needs. We regularly evaluate our product roadmaps and make significant changes as our understanding of the technological challenges and market landscape and our product ideas and designs evolve. We also may be unsuccessful in our research and product development efforts. A key element of our long-term business strategy involves sales, marketing, training and customer service operations, including hiring personnel with the necessary experience. Managing and maintaining these operations is expensive and time consuming, and an inability to leverage such an organization effectively or at all could inhibit potential sales and the penetration and adoption of our software products. In addition, certain decisions we make regarding priorities and staffing in these areas in our efforts to responsibly manage our financial resources could have unintended negative effects on our revenue, such as by weakening the sales and marketing infrastructures or lowering the quality of customer service. Successful commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products may be delayed beyond our current expectations and therefore product availability to customers, customer acquisition and receipt of software licensing revenue could be delayed. We are focused on the development and commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products. Product testing and customer use regularly provide feedback on how we can improve our products. If we are unable to demonstrate that our software products deliver the performance, reliability, functionality and/or safety that we or our potential customers expect or quickly address discovered issues, commercial success may be delayed as we work to address the deficiencies. As a result of such delays, we may receive revenue later than expected or not at all if our potential customers decide to seek alternative solutions to our products, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, our current estimates for the release of the initial commercial version of Palladyne Pilot and the achievement of software product sales to potential customers are dependent in part on our ability to hire and retain qualified employees, UAV availability and other factors. If we are unable to recruit and retain employees as needed to complete the development of and commercialize our software products, we may be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all. In addition, geopolitical events and macro-economic conditions, such as the current wars between Russia and Ukraine and in the middle east, inflation and high interest rates, and responses thereto have contributed to price increases and may continue to 17 do so. If we are unable to develop and commercialize our software products in a cost efficient manner, our financial results, financial condition and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Over recent years we experienced, and we continue to experience, these challenges, which have at times negatively impacted our product development schedules and progress. We expect these challenges to continue and, if they do and if we are unable to effectively mitigate their impact, it is likely that we will be unable to meet our currently expected timelines. Our anticipated revenues are expected to be primarily derived from the licensing of our AI/ML software products for the foreseeable future. If we are successful in commercializing our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, our revenue will be concentrated in licensing those software products for the foreseeable future. We will need to continue to enhance our products, develop new capabilities and establish and grow our customer base to diversify our revenue and customers. To the extent our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products do not meet customer expectations, or cannot be completed or released on their projected timelines and in line with cost targets, our future revenue, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Any issues in the development and use of our AI/ML Foundational Technology or related products, or issues in products developed by others, may result in reputational harm or liability. Any issues in the development or use of our AI/ML Foundational Technology or related products, or issues in products developed by others, may result in reputational harm or liability. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, challenges and unintended consequences that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed, ineffective or inadequate. AI development or deployment practices by us or others could result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals or society. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability and brand or reputational harm. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment or other social, economic or political issues, we may experience competitive, brand or reputational harm or legal and/or regulatory action. Further, incorporating AI gives rise to litigation risk and risk of non-compliance and unknown costs of compliance, as AI is an emerging technology for which the legal and regulatory landscape is not fully developed. See "Issues in the development and use of AI/ML, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability or other adverse consequences to our business operations." Our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products are new technologies, and customer trials and discussions may not result in purchases. Our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products are new technologies. As of the date of this Report, we have revenue generating contracts with U.S. government customers related to various aspects of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, and while we continue to engage with numerous other potential customers, we currently have no commercial customers. Our software products contain advanced software and control technologies that we have developed over many years. The design of our software products is significantly influenced by feedback from potential customers and reflects the needs they express. Even if we are able to successfully incorporate that feedback into our software products, customers who initially expressed an interest in our software products during the design or testing phase may not purchase the software. If we cannot commercialize our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products on our expected schedule, if our products do not offer our potential customers the features, functionality and return on investment that they expect, if potential customers are unwilling or hesitant to adopt new technologies and products such as ours and/or if potential customers are not willing to pay for our software products at the rates that we currently expect, our ability to generate material revenues will be materially impaired. 18 Although we began initial customer testing in June 2024 for our Palladyne IQ product, we continue to have limited knowledge of the customer testing that will be required for customers to ultimately license our software products. As a result, customer testing may take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to provide such testing to the satisfaction of prospective customers, which could result in longer sales cycles and fewer purchases than anticipated. We may not be able to adapt our products to reflect customer feedback successfully or at all. If customers who initially express an interest in our software products and influenced their designs do not license our products, or if they adopt a competitors' technology, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, to build and maintain our business, we must maintain confidence among customers and potential customers in our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, long-term financial viability and prospects. Maintaining such confidence may be particularly complicated by certain factors including those that are largely outside of our control, such as our limited commercial software experience, customer unfamiliarity with our software, any delays in development, product performance, competition and uncertainty regarding the future of AI and robotics. If we do not generate sufficient licensing revenue, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Further, if investors, analysts, rating agencies and other third parties are not confident in our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, our ability to commercialize our products, our financial viability, or our prospects, we may not be able to raise any needed funding which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and prospects and ability to continue operations. If our target markets and the robotics industry do not continue to develop as we anticipate or if potential customers do not adopt our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and license our products, our sales will not grow as quickly as expected, or at all, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The market for our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and applications similar to the ones we are developing is relatively new and evolving. We are developing our software products to respond to an increasingly global and complex business environment with rigorous regulatory standards. If organizations do not allocate their budgets as we expect or if we do not succeed in convincing potential customers to license our software products, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all. Economic uncertainty or future deterioration in general economic conditions might also cause our customers to cut or delay their spending, and such cuts might disproportionately affect businesses like ours to the extent customers view our software products as too costly or discretionary. Moreover, market acceptance of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products is critical to our continued success. Even if the market grows as expected, if potential customers do not adopt our software products, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to generate material revenues from our software products before we exhaust our financial resources, we may need to cease business operations. See "We are an early stage company with a history of losses, and expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future."and "Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to meet capital needs or as we may otherwise determine to be advisable that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. If we require additional capital and are not able to secure new funding, we may not be able to continue our business operations." If we are unable to successfully introduce and implement enhancements, new features or modifications to our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, our business would be harmed. If we are unable to successfully introduce and implement new applications, enhancements or features, or fail to develop new applications that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects would be adversely affected. The success of enhancements and new applications depend on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. We must continue to meet changing expectations and requirements of our customers. Any failure of our products to operate effectively with future software, such as third-party robotic operating systems and technologies or to evolve and scale to address the changing needs of our customers could reduce the demand for our products or result in customer dissatisfaction. Further, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new software or technologies, or modifications to our software or products or existing software or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. If we are not successful in developing modifications and enhancements to our products or if we fail to introduce new applications to market in a timely fashion, our products might become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete, and consequently our revenue growth might be significantly impaired and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 19 We may fail to attract or retain customers at sufficient rates or in sufficient numbers or at all. We have no previous history or experience commercializing software products and may not be able to do so efficiently or effectively or at all. To create and grow our customer base, we must license our software to new customers, which we may not be able to do in sufficient numbers or at all. Even if we are able to attract customers, these customers may not maintain a high level of commitment to our software products. In addition, we will incur marketing, sales and other expenses, including referral fees, to attract new customers, which will offset revenue from such customers. For these and other reasons, we could fail to achieve revenue growth, which would adversely affect our results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We expect our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products to be used with robots operating in a wide variety of environments and for a broad range of complex uses. Our success depends on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to implement our products successfully in these environments. Customer retention will also be largely dependent on the quality and effectiveness of our customer service operations, which may be handled internally by our personnel and also by third-party service providers. We expect that we will need to often assist our customers in implementing our software products. If we or our customers are unable to implement our products successfully, or are unable to do so in a timely manner, inadequate performance might result and customer perceptions of our technology, products and company might be impaired, our reputation and brand might suffer, we may face legal claims, customers might choose not to renew or expand the use of our products and we might lose opportunities for additional sales. We have no previous history with our licensing sales model. We have no experience with licensing software as a business model. The success of our strategy to build recurring revenue streams through software licenses depends on our ability to successfully market our products and their benefits to customers and to successfully develop a network of ongoing customers that maintain or renew their licenses, pay for upgrades, license additional functionality, or expand the use of the software within their robotic systems. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of these risks, and our license model may not prove successful. In addition, our competitors may offer different pricing models that may be more attractive to potential customers. We may be required to adjust our sales model in response to these changes, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Important assumptions about market demand, pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our software products may be inaccurate. Our decision to focus our business strategy on the development and commercialization of our commercial AI/ML Foundational Technology was based in part on our estimates of the potential addressable market, pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our related products. However, the market demand for our AI/ML software products is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. Given the evolving nature of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult to predict customer demand or adoption rates for our software products or the future growth of the markets we target. If one or more of the targeted markets experience a shift in customer demand, whether due to new solutions that better address customer needs or otherwise, our software products may not compete as effectively, if at all. If customer demand does not develop as expected, or if we do not achieve forecasted pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our software products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The benefits of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products to customers and projected return on investment have not been substantiated through customer use. Our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products have not been commercially used by customers. Our products may not perform consistent with customers' expectations or consistent with other products that may be or may become available. Any failure of our products to perform as expected could harm our reputation and result in adverse publicity, lost revenue, license cancellation, harm to our brand, delays in availability, product liability claims and significant warranty and other expenses and could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 20 We currently intend to target many customers that are large businesses with substantial negotiating power, exacting product standards and potentially competitive internal solutions. If we are unable to sell our software products to these customers, our prospects and results of operations will be adversely affected. We expect that many of our potential customers will be large businesses with substantial negotiating power relative to us and, in some instances, may have internal solutions that are competitive to our AI/ML software products. These large businesses also have significant development resources, which may allow them to acquire or develop independently, or in partnership with others, competitive technologies. Meeting the technical requirements and securing binding commitments from any of these businesses will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We may be unable to secure customers from these or other businesses or we may be unable to generate meaningful revenue from these potential customers. If our software products are not selected by these large businesses or if these businesses develop or acquire competitive technology, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. A portion of our revenue is currently and will continue to be generated by contracts with government entities, which make us subject to a number of uncertainties, challenges and risks. Contracts with government entities are subject to a number of risks. Such relationships can be highly competitive, expensive and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate revenue. Government spending may be impacted by various factors, including changing political environments and shifts in government priorities. The impact of any reductions in U.S. government spending could result in the cancellation of our contracts and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. U.S. government spending may be reduced as a result of the recent change in presidential administration, and other factors affecting the U.S. government such as national security focus areas, budget deficits and the national debt. If we are successful in being awarded a government contract, such award may be subject to appeals, disputes or litigation, including bid protests by unsuccessful bidders. Government demand and payment for our solutions may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our solutions. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate our contracts for convenience or default. Also, see "We are subject to laws, regulations and contractual provisions as a government contractor or subcontractor, which may pose increased risk of potential liability and expenses related thereto, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition." We operate in a competitive industry that is subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase. Our products may not be competitive with other alternatives. The AI/ML software and robotics industries are subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our research and development efforts may be unable to keep up with changes in technology or its alternatives and, as a result, our competitiveness may suffer. Developments in alternative technologies or solutions may materially and adversely affect our competitiveness in ways we do not currently anticipate. While we plan to upgrade and adapt our software products as we or others develop new technology, any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, or successfully react to changes or advances in existing technologies, could delay our development and introduction of new and enhanced products, which could result in the loss of competitiveness, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors. We believe our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products will compete (both directly and indirectly) with companies such as Bright Machines, Intrinsic, Liquid AI, Mujin, Physical Intelligence, Rapid Robotics, Skild AI, Anduril, Shield AI and Skydio. We believe that our competitors are seeking to solve the same or similar industry challenges as we are, but that most are focused on a particular aspect of the functionality of our AI/ML Foundational Technology rather than a fully competitive solution. While we view industrial robotics and cobot manufacturers such as ABB, Fanuc, Kawasaki, KUKA, Universal Robots and Yasakawa, large system integrators such as Honeywell, Reply and Rockwell Automation and technology companies such as NVIDIA as potential target customers and/or channel and ecosystem partners for our AI/ML software products, we also recognize that these companies may emerge as formidable competitors through their own internal development efforts or future technology partnerships with and acquisitions of our competitors. They may bring their robust customer relationships, channels and significant financial resources to help accelerate the market viability of one of our direct or indirect competitors. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have products that are commercially available and/or in development. We expect some products currently in development to become commercially available in the next few years. Further, our products may not be competitive with other alternatives. 21 Our competitor base may change or expand as we continue to develop and commercialize software products in the future. Competitors may develop products that utilize advanced technology similar to ours (such as computer vision, AI and ML) in a more effective way, or new technologies or products that provide superior results to customers or are less expensive than our software products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do, or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, potential customers could have long-standing or contractual relationships with competitors. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt our software products, particularly if they compete with or have the potential to compete with, or diminish the need/utilization of software products or technologies provided by any of our competitors with whom they may have an existing relationship. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, because we operate in new and evolving markets, the actions of our competitors could adversely affect our business. Adverse events such as product defects or legal claims with respect to competing or similar products could cause reputational harm to the AI/ML software or robotics markets as a whole and, accordingly, our business. We may not be able to complete or enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts. Even after introduction of a commercial version of a product, we will also likely need to continue to advance and evolve the product in response to the evolving demands of our customers in the various industries we expect to serve. Our Palladyne IQ product is in the early stages of commercialization and we continue product testing, debugging and refinement, and we have not yet released the initial commercial version of our Palladyne Pilot product. We will incur significant additional product development efforts and expenses, and we may not be successful in commercializing or marketing our products at all or within our currently expected timelines or available resources. We released the initial commercial version of our Palladyne IQ product on October 1, 2024 and expect to release the initial commercial version of Palladyne Pilot by the end of the first quarter of 2025. See "Successful commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products may be delayed beyond our current expectations and therefore product availability to customers, customer acquisition and receipt of software licensing revenue could be delayed." In addition, we make iterative improvements throughout the development process and intend to continue to do so after commercial release of our products. If we fail to adequately communicate to customers product improvements, or if customer feedback is not adequately reflected in our product improvements, customers may not be persuaded of the value of our products. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features desired by customers, we may fail to generate revenue sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience delays in various phases of product development, including during research and development, release testing and marketing and customer education efforts. Further, delays in product development would postpone demonstrations and customer testing, which are important opportunities for customer engagement, and cause us to miss expected timelines. Such delays could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products, or to purchase competitors' products. Even if we are able to successfully develop our products when and as anticipated, we may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and our products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. If we are unable to successfully manage our product development and communications with customers, customers may choose to not adopt or purchase our products, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Operations and Growth Real or perceived design flaws, errors, defects, glitches, bugs or malfunctions (collectively, "flaws") in our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, failure of oursoftware products to perform as expected, connectivity issues or user errors can result in lower than expected return on investment for customers, personal injury or property damage and significant security or safety concerns, each of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. The design, development and use of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products involve certain inherent risks. New software products generally suffer from flaws that are found, often as a result of customer use, and fixed over time. Real or perceived flaws in our products, connectivity issues, unanticipated or unintended use of our products, user errors or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products, among others, can lead to injury, property damage or other adverse events. We have conducted, are conducting and plan to continue to conduct extensive testing of our software products, 22 in some instances in collaboration with our customers, to ensure that any such issues can be identified and addressed. However, we may not be able to identify all such issues or, if identified, efforts to address them may not be effective in all cases, and our product testing may not be adequate. We plan to conduct investigations, where applicable, to identify the cause or causes of incidents and, when appropriate, implement changes to testing protocols or to the products to prevent such incidents from reoccurring. However, any implemented improvements may not fully prevent similar or other incidents in the future. Moreover, because of the size and weight of the third-party systems that may in the future use our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, and the nature and variability of the environments in which we expect this software to be used, adverse events relating to the use of our products could include significant injuries or even death. To the extent that flaws or connectivity issues are discovered during or after product development, we may experience delays in the development and/or sale of our products while the issues are resolved. For example, we continue our efforts to increase product reliability and stability and conduct ordinary course product testing and debugging have at times resulted in product development delays. If any flaws and related issues that may arise cannot be adequately resolved, product sales may not occur and/or resume. In addition, we may not be aware of Defects until injury to person or property has occurred. Such adverse events could lead to safety alerts relating to our software products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of our products from the market. Defects could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation or, in the event of regulatory developments, delays in new product approvals. Complex software may frequently experience errors, especially when first introduced. Our products are complex and may experience errors or performance problems in the future. A failure of any part of our AI/ML Foundational Technology or related products could result in property damage, serious injury or even death. We plan to implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regular software maintenance, which may lead to downtime. Even if we are able to implement bug fixes and upgrades in a timely manner, customers and operators also may fail to install updates and fixes to the software for several reasons, including poor connectivity or inattention. Any such occurrence could cause delay in market acceptance of our software products, damage to our reputation, increased service and warranty costs, product liability claims and loss of revenue. We anticipate that in the ordinary course of business we may be subject to product liability claims alleging Defects in the design of our software products. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs and high punitive damage payments, damage our reputation or require significant costs to redesign or fix our software or products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Even if our AI/ML Foundational Technology performs properly and our products are used as intended, if personal injuries occur while operating third-party products that use our AI/ML software, we could be exposed to liability and our results of operations, financial condition and reputation may be adversely affected. Third-party systems that may in the future use our AI/ML Foundational Technology will contain complex technology and must be used as designed and intended in order to operate safely and effectively. Even if our software products are used as designed and intended, customers may not operate complex third-party systems that use our products safely and effectively. In addition, we cannot predict all the ways in which the proper use or misuse of our products can lead to injury or damage to property, and our training resources and safety systems may not be successful at preventing all incidents. If personal injury or damage to property were to occur while operating our products in a manner consistent with our training and instructions or otherwise, we could be exposed to liability and our results of operations, financial condition and reputation may be adversely affected. We use "open source" software, which could negatively affect our ability to offer our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and subject us to possible litigation. Our AI/ML Foundational Technology incorporates "open source" software provided by third parties. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable and modifiable, and is made available to the general public on an "as-is" basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software or internally developed software. Open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or other claims relating to violation of intellectual property rights or the quality of the software. In addition, certain open source licenses, like the GNU Affero General Public License, may require us to offer for no cost the components of our software that incorporate the open source software, to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create by incorporating or using the open source software or to license our modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If we are required under the terms of 23 an open source license to release our proprietary source code to the public, competitors could create similar products with lower development effort and time, which ultimately could result in a loss of sales for us. We may also face claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement, misappropriation or other violation of open source technology. These claims could result in litigation or require us to purchase a costly license, devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of our software products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or make generally available our proprietary code in source code form, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results, including being enjoined from the offering of the components of our software that contained the open source software. We could also be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our software. Although we monitor use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would subject our software to unintended conditions, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products. We cannot guarantee that we will incorporate open source software in our software in a manner that will not subject us to liability, or in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures. Our business and prospects depend significantly on our ability to build our brand. We may not succeed in establishing, maintaining and strengthening an effective brand, and our brand and reputation could be harmed by negative publicity regarding us or our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products. Our business and prospects are dependent on our ability to develop, maintain and strengthen our brand. If we do not continue to establish, maintain and strengthen our brand, we may lose the opportunity to build a critical mass of customers. We believe that our inability to successfully commercialize our hardware products, and our resulting financial performance, damaged our prior brand. As a result and to reflect our focus on our AI/ML Foundational Technology, in March 2024 we changed our name to Palladyne AI Corp. and have branded our AI/ML software products accordingly. Promoting and positioning our brand will likely depend significantly on our ability to provide high quality software and engage with our customers as intended. To promote our brand, we may be required to change or expand our customer development and branding practices, including increased marketing activities, which could result in substantially increased expenses. If we do not develop and maintain a strong brand, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if safety incidents occur or are perceived to have occurred, whether or not such incidents are our fault, we could be subject to adverse publicity or resistance by our customers. In particular, given the popularity of social media, any negative publicity, whether true or not, could quickly proliferate and harm perceptions and confidence in our brands. Furthermore, there is the risk of potential adverse publicity related to our partners whether or not such publicity is related to their collaboration with us. Our ability to successfully position our brand could also be adversely affected by perceptions about the quality of our competitors' products. Our management team has broad discretion in making strategic decisions to execute our growth plans, and our management's decisions have not always led to the desired result. Current and future decisions may not be successful in achieving our business objectives or may have unintended consequences that negatively impact our growth prospects. Our management has broad discretion in making strategic decisions to execute our growth plans and may devote time and company resources to new or expanded product offerings, potential acquisitions or strategic alliances, prospective customers or other initiatives that do not necessarily improve our operating results or contribute to our growth. For example, in November 2023, we pivoted our business to focus on the development and commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products in lieu of hardware products. We concluded this strategy met our goal of pursuing significant near-term revenue tied to acute customer needs and would reduce our capital requirements and related risks in line with available resources. However, this strategy may not prove to be effective. Our management must make these and other strategic and operational decisions in the context of limited financial and human resources. As a result, we have in the past, as in November 2023, and may in the future forgo opportunities we may have otherwise pursued given sufficient resources, some of which might have had greater likelihood of success. Any failure by management to make strategic decisions that are ultimately accretive to our growth may result in unfavorable returns and uncertainty about our prospects, each of which could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results and ability to continue operations. 24 If we fail to effectively manage our business, we may not be able to design, develop, market and commercialize our software products successfully. Any failure to manage our business effectively could materially and adversely affect our prospects, financial condition and operating results. As we work to grow our business, we may need to manage the following activities, among others: maintaining effective management, engineering and other teams; retaining and recruiting individuals with the appropriate relevant experience; hiring and training new personnel; commercializing our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products; forecasting revenue and implementing enterprise resource planning, or ERP, systems; entering into relationships with one or more third-party service providers or partners, including in relation to the development and commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products; potentially carrying out acquisitions and entering into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships; expanding and enhancing internal information technology, safety and security systems; establishing or expanding sales and customer service organizations; conducting demonstrations and customer trials of our software products; and implementing and enhancing administrative infrastructure, systems, controls and processes. We conducted two workforce reductions during 2023 ("2023 RIFs") to decrease our costs and create a more streamlined organization to support our business, and to focus on our AI/ML Foundational Technology. However, these RIFs have placed and will continue to place additional strain on our existing personnel and other resources, and we could experience systemic operating difficulties in managing our business and implementing controls and other business processes, resource constraints in our product development and commercialization efforts, or other limitations or difficulties that are difficult to predict at this time. In addition, while the 2023 RIFs resulted in significant annualized cost savings, we may incur additional expenses not currently contemplated due to events associated with the reduction in force or other similar initiatives and may experience attrition beyond planned staff reductions, which may lead to the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, pressure on our controls and processes and reduced employee morale. Moreover, we may not be able to monetize all of the assets unrelated to our current business strategy. We may be unable to adequately control the costs associated with our operations in order to achieve profitability. We will require significant capital to develop and grow our business, including successfully developing and commercializing our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, establishing or expanding our design, research and development, sales and maintenance and service capabilities and building our brands. We have incurred and expect to continue incurring significant expenses which will impact our profitability, including research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses as we build our brand and market our software products and general and administrative expenses. Although the 2023 RIFs and other cost-saving measures have significantly reduced expenses, and recent financing activities have increased our financial resources, it may be difficult to reduce expenses further or maintain current levels while pursuing our business objectives. Some of the factors that may lead to cost increases or difficulty further reducing cost are outside of our control, such as national or global geopolitical and economic conditions, including inflation and interest rates. In addition, we may incur significant costs upgrading or fixing Defects in our software products. Our ability to continue our operations in the long term and potentially become profitable in the future will not only depend on our ability to commercialize our software products to meet customer needs and identify and investigate new areas of demand, but also on our ability to license our products at prices needed to achieve sufficient revenues and margins to cover our cash outlay, including the risks and costs associated with any warranty obligations. If we are unable to efficiently design, develop, market, deploy, distribute and service our software products in a cost-effective manner, our operating results, financial condition and prospects would be materially and adversely affected and we may not achieve profitability. 25 We expect to incur substantial research and development costs and devote significant resources to developing and commercializing our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, and we may never reach profitability and/or achieve significant or any licensing revenue. Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting our AI/ML Foundational Technology and products to new applications and customer requirements and introducing new features and functionality that achieve market acceptance. We expect to incur substantial, and potentially increasing, research, development, sales and marketing costs as part of our efforts to design, develop, enhance and commercialize our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products. Our research and development program may not produce successful results or, be sufficient to adapt to new or changing technologies (such as AI) and our products may not achieve market acceptance, create meaningful or any revenue or become profitable. The products related to our AI/ML Foundational Technology require certain limited hardware components, and we are dependent on our suppliers, some of which are currently single, sole or limited source suppliers. Any inability of these suppliers to deliver necessary components of our products at prices, volumes, performance, timing and specifications acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We maintain a limited set of suppliers for the minimal hardware components that are required for use of our Palladyne IQ product. As of December 31, 2024, most of our key suppliers are based in the United States. In some cases, we have sole source (where the component is only available from a single vendor, often as a result of customization for our use) or single source (where we purchase from a single vendor but there are alternative sources of the component) suppliers. We seek to minimize our dependence on sole or single source suppliers in order to reduce risk in our supply chain, including the risk of losing a sole or single source supplier due to bankruptcy, discontinuing production of the particular component or some other reason. However, some of the components used in our products may have to be purchased by us from a single source and some may only be available from a sole source. If our third-party suppliers are unable to supply key components and materials in the required volumes, at the needed times or at acceptable prices, our sales, revenue and profitability will likely be adversely affected and we may not be able to meet our obligations to customers. Our third-party suppliers may also not be able to meet the specifications and performance characteristics required by us, which would impact our ability to achieve our product specifications and performance characteristics as well. Additionally, our third-party suppliers may be unable to obtain required certifications or provide warranties for their products that are necessary for our products. If we are unable to obtain components and materials used in our products from our suppliers, our business would be adversely affected. We have less negotiating leverage with suppliers than larger and more established companies and may not be able to obtain favorable pricing and other terms. For example, agreements with suppliers may include terms that are unfavorable to us, such as requirements that we order components and manufacture systems and solutions in excess of our demand due to minimum order quantity requirements or minimum price thresholds. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source components, we may be unable to do so in time to support our production needs, or at all, or at prices or quality levels that are favorable to us. Further, we may not be able to develop satisfactory alternatives to sole-sourced components. Any inability to find satisfactory alternatives to our single- and sole-sourced component suppliers, whether due to bankruptcy of the supplier, a decision to discontinue manufacturing the component or for any other reason, could affect our costs and component availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, fluctuations or shortages in raw materials or components and other economic conditions, including tariffs, may cause us to experience significant increases in freight charges and material costs. Substantial increases in the prices for our materials would increase our operating costs and could reduce our margins if the increased costs cannot be recouped through increased sales prices. We face risks related to wars, natural disasters, health epidemics and other calamities and supply chain disruption, any of which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our facilities or operations, or any potential third-party suppliers, partners, or service providers could be adversely affected by events outside of our or their control, such as natural disasters, wars, health epidemics and other calamities and force majeure events. Our backup system does not capture data on a real-time basis and we may be unable to recover certain data in the event of a server failure. Our backup system may not be adequate to protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist attacks, cybersecurity incidents or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures or internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or the malfunction of software or hardware, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Additionally, depending upon any potential health pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks that may emerge, our potential customers and partners may suspend or delay their engagement with us or take other actions or experience their 26 own negative impacts, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to meet current timelines. The COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected our ability to recruit skilled employees to join our team, conduct research and development activities and engage with development customers, and it or other similar events could do so again and may impede our product development timelines. Events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including labor actions, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics, information technology or transportation systems. Some of our key suppliers are relatively small companies that could be especially susceptible to these risks. In addition, global events in recent years have resulted in widespread global supply chain disruptions to vendors including critical supply chain shortages, labor shortages, significant material cost inflation and extended lead times for items that are required for our operations. Any such interruptions to our supply chain could increase our costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. Risks Related to Our Finances Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to meet capital needs or as we may otherwise determine to be advisable that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. If we require additional capital and are not able to secure new funding, we may not be able to continue our business operations. Although we believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months, we may seek additional financing during that time to bolster our cash reserves and ensure our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives. Our current business plans may require us, or we may deem it advisable, to secure additional financing prior to achieving positive operating cash flows, and we do not anticipate achieving positive operating cash flows in the near term. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists to bolster our cash reserves, reduce our financial risk, help finance research and development costs and pursue business objectives. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our software products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. For further information on our financing activities in the year ended December 31, 2024, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources." Even if we generate positive operating cash flows, we may need to raise significant amounts of additional capital to fund our business thereafter, including to finance ongoing research and development costs, any significant unplanned or accelerated expenses and new strategic alliances or acquisitions. The fact that we have limited experience commercializing our software products, coupled with our belief that our AI/ML Foundational Technology represents a significant technology advancement, means we have limited to no historical data on the demand for our software products. In addition, we expect our expenses to continue to be significant in the foreseeable future as we continue development activities and bring our products to market, and that our level of cash usage will be significantly affected by customer demand for our products. As a result, our future capital requirements are uncertain and actual capital requirements may be different from those we currently anticipate. We may need to seek equity or debt financing to finance our expenses and capital expenditures, and such financing might not be available to us in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable, or at all. Even if available, the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could dilute our stockholders, and the incurrence of indebtedness would result in debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available on favorable terms. Our ability to obtain any necessary financing to carry out our business plan is subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions and investor acceptance of our business model. Current capital market conditions, including the impact of inflation, have increased borrowing rates and can be expected to significantly increase our cost of capital as compared to prior periods should we seek additional funding. Moreover, global capital markets have undergone periods of significant volatility and uncertainty in the past, and such financing alternatives may not be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all, should we determine it necessary or advisable to seek additional capital. If we raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders' rights. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, we may be subject to covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, buying or selling assets, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of such financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds if and when needed, we will have to significantly reduce our spending, delay or cancel our 27 planned activities or substantially change our corporate structure or potentially cease operations and liquidate. We might not be able to obtain any funding, and might not have sufficient resources to conduct our business as projected or at all, either of which could mean that we would be forced to curtail or discontinue our operations. If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations, prospects and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period due to fluctuations in our operating costs, revenues (including from development contracts), product demand and other factors. We expect our period-to-period financial results to vary based on our operating costs and product demand, which we anticipate will fluctuate as the pace at which we continue to design, develop and release software products. Additionally, as we commercialize our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products and/or enter into or complete government or development contracts, we expect our revenue from period to period to fluctuate, including as we introduce new products, features or functionality or introduce our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products to new markets for the first time. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results, especially in the near term, are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Moreover, our operating results may not meet expectations of equity research analysts, ratings agencies or investors, who may be particularly focused on quarterly financial results. If any of this occurs, the trading price of our securities could fall substantially, either suddenly or over time, and/or experience significant volatility. We are highly dependent on the services of our senior management and other key employees and, if we are unable to attract, integrate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to develop and commercialize our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products, operate our business and compete could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our senior managers or other key employees could delay product development and require outsourcing to third parties, each of which in turn could adversely affect our business. For example, we are highly dependent on the services of our AI/ML Foundational Technology leadership team, in particular our Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Denis Garagic. Dr. Garagic has a significant influence on our AI/ML Foundational Technology development efforts and our business plan. Benjamin G. Wolff also rejoined our executive team as President and Chief Executive Officer in February 2024 following the pivot in our business to focus on the development of our AI/ML Foundational Technology. If key members of our senior management were to discontinue service due to death, disability or any other reason, we may be significantly disadvantaged and their departure or the departure of other key contributors to our software and technology development efforts could result in delays in product development, or potentially an inability to successfully complete development of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products at all, which would materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, we may have difficulty finding, or be unable to find, qualified successors to any such persons should they depart the Company. If we are unable to successfully continue development and commercialization of our AI/ML Foundational Technology and related products in a timely manner, whether due to the departure of any such persons or otherwise, we may not have sufficient time or resources to pursue alternative plans or opportunities and may need to cease operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for any of our senior management. For these reasons, we may incur significant costs to retain our senior management team and key personnel. For example, in December 2024 we entered into an amended employment agreement with Mr. Wolff that extended the term of his employment through the end of 2027, pursuant to which Mr. Wolff is entitled to a cash-settled phantom stock payment with respect to 1.8 million shares of our Common Stock on his continued employment through October 31, 2027 or upon earlier change of control of the Company or upon earlier qualifying termination of his employment, which, depending on the value of our Common Stock at the time of settlement, could result in a substantial cash payment obligation. We may not have sufficient cash at such time to make such payment and may need to raise additional capital to meet such obligation, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. This phantom stock payment may be replaced in whole or in part in the event we grant Mr. Wolff restricted stock awards of up to 1.5 million shares subject to vesting on the same terms. See Exhibit 10.19 to this Annual Report for Mr. Wolff's amended and restated employment agreement. We have experienced and may continue to experience changes in our senior management team. For example, in connection with Mr. Wolff's return to our executive team as President and Chief Executive Officer in February 2024, there have been changes to our operations and there may be additional changes in the future. If we do not successfully implement and adapt to these changes they may not lead to the desired improvement in our business and results of operation. This in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability to successfully manage these changes could be viewed negatively by 28 our customers, employees, investors and other third-party partners, and could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to identify, hire, attract, train and develop other highly qualified personnel as needed, specifically AI/ML software engineers. Because of the innovative and advanced nature of our technology, individuals with the necessary experience have not been, and likely will continue not to be, readily available to hire, and as a result, we may need to expend significant time and expense to recruit and retain experienced employees and appropriately train any newly hired employees. Integrating new employees can also cause disruptions to processes, projects, culture, priorities and our company as a whole. We face intense competition for experienced and highly skilled employees, specifically AI/ML software engineers, from numerous other companies, including other software and technology companies, many of whom have greater financial and other resources than we do, and our ability to hire, attract and retain them depends on our ability to provide competitive compensation. We may not be able to attract, assimilate, develop or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, including the execution of our strategy. Our 2023 RIFs and concerns about our financial condition may also cause us to experience increased difficulty attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain qualified personnel, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits and compensation expenses related to equity awards, and we may lose new employees to competitors or other companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. Moreover, new employees may not be or become as productive as we expect, or may not fit culturally, and long-term employees may not embrace new leaders, priorities, methods, processes or other changes and may decide to leave or not perform as well as they did in the past, as we may face challenges in adequately or appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. Our headquarters are in Salt Lake City, Utah, which has fewer highly skilled employees in the AI/ML software and robotics fields than some other major metropolitan areas. In addition, as part of the pivot in strategy announced in November 2023 to focus on our AI/ML Foundational Technology, we closed our facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and may no longer be able to attract highly skilled employees in that location. To attract and retain key personnel, we may need to open offices in other areas of the country, which could increase costs and reduce productivity. Any failure by our management team and our employees to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our ability to design and launch our software products or to operate our business and compete, as well as on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We incur significant expenses and administrative burdens as a publicly-traded company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. As a publicly-traded company, we are incurring legal, accounting and other expenses that we previously did not have, and these expenses may increase as we continue to implement and strengthen controls, processes and systems and employ related personnel and after we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act. We are subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules adopted by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We may need to hire additional employees to support our operations as a public company, which will increase our operating costs in future periods. Moreover, these rules and regulations have substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These increased costs have increased our net loss. For example, it has been more expensive for us to obtain appropriate director and officer liability insurance coverage than we incurred as a private company. We cannot accurately predict or estimate the amount or timing of all the additional costs we may incur. Being a public company could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Such increased expenses and administrative burdens involved in operating as a public company consume significant financial resources and any increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to maintain and strengthen effective systems of disclosure