Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. This Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this Report or other risks that we currently deem immaterial or that may be unknown to us. References in this Item 1A Risk Factors to financial information as of dates or for periods ended on or prior to March 31, 2022 do not include the financial information of RE2 as of those dates or for those periods. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are an early stage company with a history of losses, and expect to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future. We incurred a net loss of $19.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and a net loss of $81.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. We believe that we will continue to incur operating and net losses through at least 2023. Even if we are able to successfully develop our robotic systems and attract customers for commercial sales or RaaS subscriptions of our products, we may not become profitable. Our potential profitability is dependent upon the successful development and successful commercial introduction and adoption on a larger scale of our robotic systems, which may not occur. We expect that the rate at which we will incur losses will be significantly higher in future periods as we: continue to design, develop, manufacture and commercialize our robotic systems; continue to utilize and develop potential new relationships with third-party partners for supply, design to manufacturing and manufacturing; expand our production capabilities, including costs associated with the potential outsourcing of the manufacturing of our robotic systems; build up inventories of parts and components for our robotic systems; develop our maintenance and servicing capacity, capabilities and replacement parts inventory; manufacture an inventory of our robotic systems; increase our sales and marketing activities and develop our sales and distribution infrastructure; develop our remote monitoring, updating and other cloud-based services; develop safety measures for our products and as our customers evaluate and test the efficacy of those safety measures; develop and expand our technology infrastructure and cybersecurity measures, policies and controls; and 31 increase our general and administrative functions and systems to support our growing operations and to operate as a public company. Because we will incur costs and expenses from these efforts before we receive incremental revenues with respect thereto, we expect that our losses in future periods will be significant. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that these efforts may not result in any additional revenues, which would further increase our losses. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, we may not be able to design, develop, manufacture, market and launch our robotic systems successfully. We intend to invest significantly in order to expand our business. Any failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We intend to expand our operations significantly. We expect our expansion to include: expanding the management, engineering and product teams; identifying and recruiting individuals with the appropriate relevant experience; hiring and training new personnel; launching commercialization of our products; forecasting production and revenue and implementing ERP systems; entering into relationships with one or more third-party design for manufacturing partners and third-party manufacturers and/or expanding our internal manufacturing capabilities; controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; carrying out acquisitions and entering into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships; expanding and enhancing internal information technology, safety and security systems; establishing or expanding sales, customer service and maintenance and servicing facilities and organizations; conducting demonstrations of robotic systems; entering into agreements with suppliers and service providers; and implementing and enhancing administrative infrastructure, systems and processes. We intend to continue to hire a significant number of additional personnel, including engineers, design and production personnel and service technicians for our robotic systems. Because of the innovative nature of our technology, individuals with the necessary experience have not been, and likely will continue not to be, readily available to hire, and as a result, we will need to expend significant time and expense to recruit and retain experienced employees and appropriately train any newly hired employees. Competition for individuals with experience designing, producing and servicing dexterous robots and their software is intense, and we may not be able to attract, integrate, train, motivate or retain additional highly qualified personnel. Further, we have recently hired a significant number of new employees, including Kiva Allgood, our new CEO, in December 2021 and other senior employees, as well as over 100 employees as a result of our acquisition of RE2. Integrating a large number of new employees in a short time can cause disruptions to processes, projects, culture, priorities and a company as a whole. New employees may not perform as expected or may not fit culturally, and long-term employees may not embrace new leaders, priorities, methods, processes or other changes and may decide to leave or may not perform as well as in the past. Further, we face these and other risks as a result of our acquisition of RE2. See - The success of our acquisition of RE2, Inc. is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Any failure to attract, integrate, train, motivate and retain employees or difficulty adjusting to a larger organization with a new CEO and a large number of new employees could significantly delay our product development and commercial release and materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 32 The success of our acquisition of RE2, Inc. is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including integration risks. On April 25, 2022, we completed our acquisition of RE2, Inc. We believe that RE2's business is complementary to ours, and that both RE2 and Sarcos will benefit from the combination of the two companies. Upon consummation of the acquisition of RE2, we became subject to risks associated with RE2's business, many of which are the same risks that we currently face. Other risks include: risks associated with RE2's products and technology; integration risks, such as risks associated with combining two organizations and cultures in two different geographies and integrating systems and maintaining IT security; potential loss of focus on business and product development objectives; maintaining customer and supplier relationships; potential inability to allocate resources appropriately across product lines; potential inability to retain employees; and risks associated with whether we can achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition. If we are unable to effectively manage these and any other risks resulting from the acquisition, the value of our investment in RE2 may be adversely affected and the expected benefits of the acquisition may not be realized. We are in the early stages of integrating with RE2, which we acquired on April 25, 2022. While we believe that the organizations share common values and cultures and that the acquisition will help us expand our product portfolio, serve additional markets and further our product development efforts, integration involves significant risk and management attention. If these efforts divert management time and company resources from our product development efforts, the commercial production and release of our Guardian XO and Guardian XT products could be delayed. The development and sales of our Sapien products could also be adversely affected. If we are not able to successfully integrate RE2 and achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition while managing the development and commercialization of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, commercialization of the Guardian XO and Guardian XT could be delayed, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue, our overall profitability and our operating performance, and the value of our investment in RE2 could be adversely affected. Our operating and financial projections rely on management assumptions and analyses. If these assumptions or analyses prove to be incorrect, our actual operating results may be materially different from our forecasted results. We are a development stage company, with very limited experience commercializing our products. Our projected financial and operating information reflect estimates of future performance and are based on multiple financial, technical and operational assumptions, including timely hiring of additional skilled personnel, timing of commercial launch of our robotic systems, the level of demand for our robotic systems, the performance of our robotic systems, the utilization of the robot fleet, commercial interest in the RaaS subscription model and product pricing, the useable life of the robotic systems, cost of manufacturing, cost of components and availability of adequate supply, number of units that will need to be manufactured in each batch, the nature and length of the sales cycle, maintenance and servicing costs and the costs of refurbishing the robotic systems. However, given our limited commercial experience, it is likely that many of these assumptions will prove incorrect. Projections and other statements about future expectations are forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to significant risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control (in addition to the information contained in these Risk Factors, see Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ). Some of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies that could determine whether actual operating and financial results and business developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions include: the amount of time and attention needed from management to integrate RE2 into our business, as well as any resulting disruption to or delay in our product development efforts; whether we are able to successfully integrate RE2 into our business and achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition; whether we can adequately address customer safety requirements; whether we can obtain sufficient capital to sustain and grow our business; our ability to manage our growth, including the integration of RE2 into our business; 33 the contractual terms of agreements with customers, suppliers and manufacturing partners, and whether we can effectively manage and maintain relationships with these third-parties; the availability and costs of components and materials; the timing and costs of the required marketing and promotional efforts; the timing and cost of each sale or RaaS subscription; whether customers and their employees will adopt the robotic systems offered by us; the timing required and success of customer testing of our technology; competition, including from established and future competitors; our ability to retain existing key management, to attract additional leaders, to integrate recent hires, including RE2s employees, and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including engineers, design and production personnel and service technicians; the overall strength and stability of domestic and international economies; demand for currently available and future robots; regulatory, legislative and political changes; and customer requirements and preferences. Unfavorable changes in any of these or other factors could cause us to fail to meet our operating and financial projections and could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, may be delayed beyond the end of 2022 and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. While we expect to commence initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and the Guardian XT, by the end of 2022 for delivery to customers in early 2023, there are significant risks and challenges that could delay our continued development efforts and initial production of commercial units and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023, including: The COVID-19 pandemic and general labor shortages of qualified applicants has affected and is likely to continue to affect our ability to recruit skilled employees to join our team, negatively affecting the development and commercial launch timelines for our products. We and our suppliers are currently experiencing increases in the cost of and an interruption in the supply or shortage of materials. Due to the complexity of our products, each unit is expected to contain several thousand components. Difficulty securing any components and materials could result in delays in the development of our core products or our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of our products, which delays could be compounded if components or units require redesign or reengineering. Delays in the development of the Guardian XO and Guardian XT due to these challenges also affect discussions with third-party contract manufacturers, as such discussions are more complicated if the units and/or components are undergoing design changes and improvements. If we are unable to enter into definitive agreements or are only able to do so on terms that are less commercially favorable to us, our expected contract manufacturing costs could increase and/or we may need to develop our own manufacturing and production capabilities. The decision to manufacture units in-house would significantly increase our capital and operating expenditures and could significantly delay production of our robotic systems. 34 Our current estimates for completion of our pre-commercialization development efforts and the commencement of initial production of commercial units and initial delivery to customers of the Guardian XO and Guardian XT are dependent on our ability to continue to hire and retain qualified employees and the availability of components on a timely basis. In addition, we have seen a significant increase in personnel and materials costs due to shortages of qualified personnel in the labor market and general inflationary pressures. Geopolitical events, such as the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and responses thereto are also contributing to supply shortages and price increases. Over the past year we have experienced, and we continue to experience, challenges in both of these areas, which have negatively impacted our product development schedules and progress. We expect these challenges to continue and, if they do and if we are unable to effectively mitigate their impact, it is likely that we will be unable to meet our currently expected timelines. Also, if ongoing product testing demonstrates that the units have not been designed or assembled to deliver the performance, reliability and/or safety that we expect, initial production of commercial units and therefore initial delivery to customers may be delayed as we work to address the deficiencies. Delays in the commercial launch of these products will result in a commensurate delay in revenue and profitability. For example, a delay in the commercial launch of the Guardian XO and Guardian XT to the end of 2023 would defer the revenue projected for 2023 to 2024. Any such delay in achieving projected revenues would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and any such delay in developing and commencing initial production of commercial units of products with the performance, reliability and/or safety we and our potential customers are expecting could materially harm our reputation and lead potential customers to seek alternative solutions. We have very limited experience commercializing our products and may not be able to do so efficiently or effectively. Although we have sold products to individual customers in the past, we have very limited experience commercializing robotic systems at a large scale and may not be able to do so efficiently or effectively. Moreover, commercialization may be delayed due to the challenges discussed under Initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, may be delayed beyond the end of 2022 and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. A key element of our long-term business strategy is the continued growth in sales, marketing, training, customer service and maintenance and servicing operations, including hiring personnel with the necessary experience. Managing and maintaining these operations is expensive and time consuming, and an inability to leverage such an organization effectively or at all could inhibit potential sales or subscriptions and the penetration and adoption of our products into new markets. In addition, certain decisions we make regarding staffing in these areas in our efforts to maintain an adequate spending level while responsibly managing our financial resources could have unintended negative effects on our revenues, such as by weakening the sales, marketing and maintenance and servicing infrastructures or lowering the quality of customer service. Our business plans require a significant amount of capital. Our future capital needs may require us to sell additional equity or debt securities that may dilute our stockholders or introduce covenants that may restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends. We will require significant capital to operate our business and fund our capital expenditures for the next several years. While we expect that we have sufficient capital to fund our currently planned operations for at least the next 12 months, it is possible that we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital to fund our business thereafter, including to finance ongoing research and development costs, manufacturing, any significant unplanned or accelerated expenses and new strategic alliances or acquisitions. The fact that we have limited experience commercializing our robotic systems on a large scale, coupled with the fact that our products represent a new product category in the commercial and industrial robotic market, means we have limited to no historical data on the demand for our robotic systems. In addition, we expect our capital expenditures to continue to be significant in the foreseeable future as we complete the designing and testing of and launch our products, and that our level of capital expenditures will be significantly affected by customer demand for our robotic systems. As a result, our future capital requirements may be uncertain and actual capital requirements may be different from those we currently anticipate. We may need to seek equity or debt financing to finance a portion of our capital expenditures. Such financing might not be available to us in a timely manner or on terms that are acceptable, or at all. Our ability to obtain the necessary financing to carry out our business plan is subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions and investor acceptance of our business model. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of such financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds, we will have to significantly reduce our spending, delay or cancel our planned activities or substantially change our corporate structure. We might not be able to obtain any funding, and might not have sufficient resources to conduct our business as projected, both of which could mean that we would be forced to curtail or discontinue our operations. In addition, our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could dilute our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. 35 If we cannot raise additional funds when we need or want them, our operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our core products represent a new product category, and important assumptions about the market demand, pricing, adoption rates and sales cycle for our current and future products may be inaccurate. Our industrial highly-dexterous mobile robotic systems, including our core products the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, are a new product category in markets that are currently dominated by conventional, manual systems and artificial intelligence and automation. The market demand for and adoption of our products is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. Although we have engaged in ongoing dialogue with potential customers, we have no outstanding binding commitments with commercial customers to purchase or to enter into RaaS subscriptions for our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT. While we do have binding commitments with commercial customers to develop and purchase Sapien products, sales volumes under these commitments are relatively limited. Existing or new regulatory or safety standards, or resistance by customer employees and labor unions, all of which are outside of our control, could cause delays or otherwise impair adoption of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our growth, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Given the evolving nature of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult to predict customer demand or adoption rates for our products or the future growth of the markets we expect to target. If one or more of the targeted markets experience a shift in customer demand, whether due to new solutions that better address customer needs or otherwise, our products may not compete as effectively, if at all, and they may not be fully developed into commercial products. If demand does not develop as expected or if we cannot accurately forecast pricing, adoption rates and sales cycle for our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected, perhaps materially. With many of our products still under development, we have limited current customers and no pending orders for the upcoming commercial version of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, and expected customer trials and discussions with respect to those products may not result in binding orders or subscriptions. We expect to commence initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, at the end of 2022 for delivery to customers in early 2023. With these core products still under development, we have limited current customers and no binding customer commitments for the commercial version of these products. At present, we have contracts for delivery of pre-production units with U.S. government customers and we also have had and currently have revenue generating contracts with both commercial and U.S. government customers for the development and testing of our Guardian XO and Guardian XT products. Although we have engaged in dialogue with potential customers about their interest in these core products, expected customer trials and discussions may not result in binding orders or sales. We have limited knowledge of the customer testing that will be required in order for customers to adopt our robotic systems. As such, customer testing may be longer than anticipated by us, and we may not be able to provide such testing to the satisfaction of prospective customers, which could result in longer sales cycles and fewer orders than anticipated. In addition, in order to build and maintain our business, we must maintain confidence among customers, suppliers, analysts, ratings agencies and other parties in our robotic systems, long-term financial viability and business prospects. Maintaining such confidence may be particularly complicated by certain factors including those that are largely outside of our control, such as our limited commercial experience, customer unfamiliarity with our products, any delays in scaling production, ability of delivery and service operations to meet demand, competition and uncertainty regarding the future of robotics. If we do not receive a sufficient number of binding purchase orders or RaaS subscriptions for our core products, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. The benefits of our products to customers and projected return on investment have not been substantiated through long-term trials or use. Our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, are still under development and their benefits to customers and projected return on investment have not been substantiated through long-term trials or use. We currently have a limited frame of reference by which to evaluate the performance of our robotic systems upon which our business prospects depend, and our products may not provide the expected benefits to customers. Our robotic systems may not perform consistent with customers expectations or consistent with other robotics products which may become available. Any failure of our robotic systems and software to perform as expected could harm our reputation and result in adverse publicity, lost revenue, delivery delays, product recalls, product liability claims and significant warranty and other expenses and could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, problems and defects experienced by competitors or others in the robotics market could, by association, have a negative impact on perception and customer demand for our robotic systems. 36 We may fail to attract or retain customers at sufficient rates or at all. Our core products are still under development. We have very limited experience commercializing our products and may not be able to do so efficiently or effectively. Although we have engaged in ongoing dialogue with potential future customers, there are currently no binding commitments with commercial customers to purchase or enter into RaaS agreements with respect to our Guardian XO and Guardian XT products. Further, although we have binding commitments with commercial customers to develop and purchase our Sapien products, these commitments are for relatively limited quantities and we will need to grow our sales of our Sapien products. To grow our customer base, we must achieve binding commitments from expected customers and add new customers, which we may not be able to do in sufficient numbers or at all. Even if we are able to attract customers, these customers may not maintain a high level of commitment to our products or purchase our products in large volumes. In addition, we will incur marketing, sales or other expenses, including referral fees, to attract new customers, which will offset revenues from such customers. For these and other reasons, we could fail to achieve revenue growth, which would adversely affect our results of operations, prospects and financial condition. If customers or their employees do not perceive our product offerings to be of value or to be easy and comfortable to use, we may not be able to attract and retain customers and customers may fail to purchase additional units or renew their RaaS subscriptions. If our efforts to satisfy and retain our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to attract customers, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. Customers may fail to purchase additional units or cancel our subscription for many reasons, including difficulties by employees in using the products, customers not using the robotic systems sufficiently, negative reception by employees or labor unions and customer service or maintenance and servicing issues that are not satisfactorily resolved. Customer retention will also be largely dependent on the quality and effectiveness of our customer service and maintenance and servicing operations, which may be handled internally by our personnel and also by third-party service providers. Outsourcing of certain customer service and claims administration or maintenance and servicing functions may reduce our ability to ensure consistency in our overall customer service processes. If we are unable to successfully retain existing customers and attract new customers and achieve volume sales of our products, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Even if we successfully market our products, the purchase or subscription, adoption and use of the products may be materially and negatively impacted if the employees of our customers resist the use and adoption of the products. We are designing our robotic systems with the goal of augmenting the workforce to increase productivity and reduce workplace injuries. Even if we successfully market our products to customers, the purchase or subscription, adoption and the use of the products may be materially and negatively impacted if the employees of our customers resist the use and adoption of the products. Customer employees may resist the adoption of our products for several reasons, including lack of instruction on how to safely and effectively use the units, a perception that the benefit of the use of the products does not outweigh the perceived difficulties or discomfort associated with use, resistance by labor unions and workplace injuries resulting from use of the products, among others. We will spend significant time and resources on beta units of our Guardian XO and Guardian XT for customer testing. If the employees of our customers resist adoption of our robotic systems, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our RaaS subscription model has yet to be tested and may fail to gain commercial acceptance. The success of our strategy to build recurring revenue streams through our RaaS subscription model depends on our ability to successfully market our products and the benefits to customers of the RaaS subscription model and to successfully develop a network of ongoing customers for our new RaaS revenue model. Investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by a new business model, many of which are beyond our control, including substantial risks and expenses while establishing or entering new markets, setting up operations and undertaking marketing activities. Customers may not perceive benefits to the RaaS subscription model. Because we will continue to own units while they are used by our RaaS customers, we will be subject to risks associated with ongoing ownership of the units, including the risks of deterioration, damage or theft and higher maintenance and servicing costs, as well as potential product liability risks. All of these could result in higher costs to us, and could lead to customer dissatisfaction. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of these risks, expenses, complications and delays and the competitive environment in which we operate. There is, therefore, nothing at this time upon which to base an assumption that our RaaS business model will prove successful. 37 If we are successful in commercializing our products, our revenue will be concentrated in a limited number of models for the foreseeable future. If we are successful in commercializing our products, our revenue will be concentrated in a limited number of models for the foreseeable future. We launched the Guardian S mobile IoT platform in 2018 and expect to commence initial production of commercial units of the Guardian XO exoskeleton and Guardian XT robotic system at the end of 2022 for delivery to customers in early 2023. Such timeline may be delayed, including due to challenges in recruiting skilled employees, difficulties in securing components and materials, development delays, difficulties relating to manufacturing of the units and other factors. See Initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, may be delayed beyond the end of 2022 and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. Such challenges may result in delay of the anticipated commercial launch of one or more of these products, which would adversely affect our financial and operating results. Further, although we have expanded our product offering through the acquisition of RE2 and its Sapien products, we expect that our revenue will still be concentrated in a relatively limited number of models for the foreseeable future, and we will need to continue to develop these products and expand the customer base for these products to diversify our revenues and customers. To the extent our products do not meet customer expectations, or cannot be completed or manufactured on their projected timelines and in line with cost and volume targets, our future sales and operating results may be adversely affected. Given that for the foreseeable future our business will depend on a limited number of models, both before and after we begin commercial sales of our Guardian XO and Guardian XT products, to the extent a particular model is not well-received by the market, our sales volumes and revenues would likely be materially and adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to complete or enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts. In order to commence initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, we will need to complete our development efforts. We will also likely need to continue to advance and evolve our products in response to the evolving demands of our customers in the various industries we expect to serve. We expect to commence initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, by the end of 2022 for delivery to customers in early 2023. Further, the models forming our Sapien product line are in various stages of development and commercialization. We will incur significant additional product development efforts and expenses, and we may not be successful in commercializing or marketing such products at all or within our currently expected timelines. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our current and future products may not be accepted by customers or their employees. The success of any proposed product offerings will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to: attract, recruit and retain qualified personnel, including engineers, design and production personnel and service technicians; identify the preferred product features in multiple industries, such as aerospace, automotive, logistics, defense, oil and gas, power and utilities, construction and manufacturing, and successfully incorporate those features into our products; develop and introduce proposed products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner; adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; and demonstrate the productivity, efficacy and safety benefits of our products. We have managed and expect to continue to manage our product development efforts through the development of alpha units, beta units and commercial units, though we also make iterative improvements throughout the development process. If we fail to adequately communicate to customers product improvements throughout the development process, or if customer feedback is not adequately reflected in our product improvements, customers may not be persuaded of the value of our products. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features desired by customers or their employees, we may fail to generate revenues sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in various phases of product development, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Further, delays in product development would postpone demonstrations and customer testing, which are important opportunities for customer engagement, and cause us to miss expected timelines. Such delays could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of or subscriptions to our products, or to purchase or subscribe for competitors products. Even if we are able to successfully develop our products when anticipated, these products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. If we are unable to successfully manage our product development and communications with customers, customers may choose to not adopt, to cancel or to not renew RaaS subscriptions, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 38 The benefits to customers of our products could be supplanted by other technologies or solutions or competitors' products that utilize similar technology to ours in a more effective way. The benefits to customers of our products could be supplanted by other technologies or solutions (such as industrial automation) or competitors' products that utilize similar technology to ours (such as artificial intelligence) in a more effective way. Although we believe that by seeking to augment, rather than replace, humans for jobs that cannot be or are not practical to be automated, our products will be superior to artificial intelligence and industrial automation products currently available, we cannot be sure that alternative technologies or improvements to artificial intelligence, industrial automation or other technologies, processes or industries will not match or exceed the benefits introduced by our products or be more cost effective than our products. The development of any alternative technology that can compete with or supplant our products may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results, including in ways we do not currently anticipate. Any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, or to react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay our development and introduction of new and enhanced products, which could result in the loss of competitiveness of our robotic systems, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors. Our research and development efforts may not be sufficient to adapt to new or changing technologies. While we plan to upgrade and adapt our robotic systems as we or others develop new technology, our robotic systems may not compete effectively with alternative products if we are not able to source and integrate the latest technology into our units. Design flaws, defects, glitches or malfunctions in our products or the software that operates them, failure of our products to perform as expected, connectivity issues or user errors can result in product recalls, lower than expected return on investment for customers, harm to users and significant safety concerns, each of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. The design, manufacture and marketing of our products involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, glitches, malfunctions, connectivity issues between the central processing unit and the robotic system, unanticipated use of our robotic systems, user errors or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the robotic systems, among others, can lead to injury, property damage or other adverse events. For example, the absence of redundant sub-systems in the Guardian XO could result in injury to person or property if a sub-system fails while the robot is in use. We conduct extensive testing of our units, in some instances in collaboration with our customers, to ensure that any such issues can be identified and addressed in advance of commercial launch of the products. However, we may not be able to identify all such issues or that, if identified, efforts to address them may not be effective in all cases, and our product testing may not be adequate. Injuries to users have occurred during the testing of our products. In each case, we conducted thorough investigations to identify the cause or causes of each incident and, when appropriate, implemented changes to testing protocols or to the units to prevent such incidents from reoccurring. However, any implemented improvements may not fully prevent similar or other incidents in the future. Users of the Guardian XO will be wearing the unit while it is in use, which could worsen the consequences of an accident. Moreover, because of the size and weight of the units, and the nature and variability of the environments in which we expect our products to be used, such as manufacturing and assembly lines, construction, field service and warehouses for the Guardian XO, and hazardous environments and at heights for the Guardian XT, adverse events relating to the use of our products could include significant injuries or even death. To the extent that design defects, glitches, malfunctions or connectivity issues between the central processing unit and the robotic system are discovered during or after the production of beta units and/or commercial products, we will experience delays in the initial production and/or continued production of our commercial products while the issues are resolved. If the issues cannot be adequately resolved, production of commercial units may not occur and/or resume. Although we are designing the Guardian XO to include important safety features and accommodate customer-specialized protective gear and fall-prevention devices, these solutions are not incorporated into the alpha versions of the products and we may not be able to successfully incorporate sufficient redundancy or other safety features to avoid such injuries in the beta and/or commercial products. In addition, we may not be aware of manufacturing defects that could occur until injury to person or property has occurred. Such adverse events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of our products from the market. A recall could result in significant costs. To the extent any manufacturing defect occurs, and such products are manufactured for us by third parties, our agreement with the third-party manufacturer may contain a limitation on the third-party manufacturers liability, and therefore we could be required to incur the majority of related costs. Product defects or recalls could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation or, in the event of regulatory developments, delays in new product approvals. 39 Our products incorporate sophisticated computer software and firmware. Complex software and firmware frequently contain errors, especially when first introduced. Our software and/or firmware may experience errors or performance problems in the future. If any part of our products hardware or software were to fail, the user could experience serious injury or even death. Additionally, users may not use our products in accordance with safety protocols and training, which could amplify the risk of death or injury. Customers and users also may fail to install updates and fixes to the software for several reasons including poor connectivity, inattention or failure to regularly dock Guardian XO units. Any such occurrence could cause delay in market acceptance of our products, damage to our reputation, product recalls, increased service and warranty costs, product liability claims and loss of revenue relating to such hardware or software defects. We anticipate that as part of our ordinary course of business we may be subject to product liability claims alleging defects in the design or manufacture of our products. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs and high punitive damage payments. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. Even if our products perform properly and are used as intended, if users sustain any injuries while operating our products, we could be exposed to liability and our results of operations, financial condition and our reputation may be adversely affected. Our products contain complex technology and must be used as designed and intended in order to operate safely and effectively. For example, we are developing the Guardian XT unit as an augmented or mixed reality-enabled highly-dexterous teleoperated robotic system to perform intricate and even dangerous tasks. We expect that users will control the unit at a distance by utilizing augmented reality teleoperation. While we expect to develop training, customer service and maintenance and servicing infrastructure to ensure users are equipped to operate our products in a safe manner, we cannot be sure that the products will ultimately be used as designed and intended. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to predict all the ways in which use or misuse of the products can lead to injury or damage to property, and our training resources may not be successful at preventing all incidents. If users were to sustain injuries or cause damage to property while operating our products, in a manner consistent with our training and instructions or otherwise, we could be exposed to liability and our results of operations, financial condition and our reputation may be adversely affected. We have no experience maintaining or servicing our products at a large scale. Under the RaaS subscription model, we will be responsible for maintenance and servicing of the units. However, we have no experience providing maintenance and servicing at a large scale. We may elect to partner with one or more third parties to perform some or all of the servicing and maintenance on our products, but we may not be able to enter into an acceptable arrangement with any such third-party provider. Although such servicing partners may have experience in servicing complex machinery, they will initially have limited experience in servicing our robotic systems. If we are unable or elect not to enter into a partnership with third parties to perform maintenance and servicing, we would be required to provide such services directly, which would significantly increase our capital expenditures and personnel costs. We would also be required to recruit and train employees to provide these services and we may not be able to attract persons with the necessary knowledge or experience to provide these services. Delays in implementing a maintenance and servicing infrastructure may significantly delay new RaaS subscriptions due to smaller than expected maintenance and servicing capacity. In addition, our service and maintenance arrangements may not adequately address the service and maintenance requirements of our customers to their satisfaction, and we and our servicing partners may not have sufficient resources, experience or inventory to meet these service requirements in a timely manner as the volume of robotic systems we deliver increases. Even if we and our servicing partners have the resources and experience needed, we and our servicing partners still may not adequately service or maintain the units. If we are unable to, directly or through third-party partners, roll out and establish a widespread service network, including on-site services, customer satisfaction could be adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our reputation and thus our sales, results of operations and prospects. Our customers will also depend on our customer support team to resolve technical and operational issues relating to the integrated software underlying our robotic systems. In addition, the RaaS subscription model will require us to cover costs relating to servicing and maintenance of the robotic systems. Customer behavior and usage may result in higher-than-expected maintenance and repair costs. Moreover, if RaaS customers do not pay the subscription fee while the units are out of service, there could be an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 40 As we continue to grow, additional pressure may be placed on our customer support team or partners, and we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for technical support. We also may be unable to modify the future scope and delivery of our technical support to compete with changes in the technical support provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully address the service requirements of our customers or we establish a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, we may be subject to claims from our customers, including loss of revenue or damages, and our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to develop and manufacture products of sufficient quality on schedule and on a large scale is unproven, and delays in the design, production and launch of our products could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our future business depends in large part on our ability to execute our plans to design, develop, manufacture, market, deploy and service our products. We intend to outsource the manufacturing of our robotic systems to a third-party manufacturing partner, which would reduce our direct control over production and manufacturing. Such diminished control may have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of our units, or our flexibility to respond to changing conditions. We also plan to retain third-party vendors and service providers to engineer, design and test some of the critical systems and components of our units. While this allows us to draw from such third parties industry knowledge and expertise, such systems and components may not be successfully developed to our specifications or delivered in a timely manner to meet our program timing requirements. Our continued development and manufacturing of our products are and will be subject to risks, including with respect to: costs to be incurred by us and/or any third-party manufacturing partner or partners in meeting our specifications and design tolerances; the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or other pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks; hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees (we have historically been understaffed due to these challenges); long- and short-term durability of our robotic systems to withstand day-to-day wear and tear; delays in delivery of final systems and components by our suppliers; manufacturing of robotic systems units in excess of demand due to contractual requirements or unexpected changes in demand; shifts in demand for our products; quality controls, particularly as we plan to expand our production capabilities; delays or disruptions in our supply chain, or the need to order supplies in excess of demand due to minimum quantity requirements or price thresholds; the impact of national or global economic or political conditions, including inflation and interest rates; work stoppages, labor strikes and other labor disputes affecting us or our suppliers, third-party manufacturers and other partners; and other delays and cost overruns. 41 We are or may be subject to risks associated with strategic alliances or acquisitions and may not be able to identify adequate strategic relationship opportunities, or form strategic relationships, in the future. We may seek to enter into strategic alliances, joint ventures, minority equity investments, acquisitions, collaborations and in-license arrangements. There is no guarantee that any of these partnerships or acquisitions would lead to any binding agreements or lasting or successful business relationships with third parties or that any of the other anticipated benefits will be achieved. If any of these relationships are established, they may subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the third-party and increased expenses in establishing new relationships, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may have limited ability to monitor or control the actions of these third parties and, to the extent any of these strategic partners suffers negative publicity or harm to their reputation from events relating to their business, we may also suffer negative publicity or harm to our reputation by virtue of our association with any such third-party. We expect that strategic business relationships will be an important factor in the growth and success of our business. However, we may not be able to identify or secure suitable business relationship opportunities in the future or our competitors may capitalize on such opportunities before we do. Moreover, identifying such opportunities could require substantial management time and resources, and negotiating and financing relationships involves significant costs and uncertainties. If we are unable to successfully source and execute on strategic relationship opportunities in the future, our overall growth could be impaired, and our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. When appropriate opportunities arise, we have in the past, and may in the future acquire additional assets, products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our existing business. From time to time, the sellers of these assets, products and technologies or businesses may retain certain rights to the technology that they sell to us, which in some circumstances could allow the sellers to compete with us. In addition to possible stockholder approval, we may need approvals and licenses from relevant government authorities for acquisitions and to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, which could result in delays and costs, and may disrupt our business strategy if we fail to do so. Furthermore, acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect. Acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. We are highly dependent on the services of our senior management and other key employees and, if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to design, manufacture and launch our products, operate our business and compete could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Legal Officer are married, and if one were to leave us, it is possible that the other would do so as well. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our senior managers or other key employees could delay product development and require outsourcing to third parties, each of which in turn could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, attract, train and develop other highly qualified personnel. Experienced and highly skilled employees are in high demand and competition for these employees can be intense, and our ability to hire, attract and retain them depends on our ability to provide competitive compensation. We may not be able to attract, assimilate, develop or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, including the execution of our strategy. Our headquarters are in Salt Lake City, Utah, which has fewer highly skilled employees in the robotics field than other major metropolitan areas. To attract and retain key personnel, we may need to open offices in other areas of the country, which could increase costs and reduce productivity. As a result of our acquisition of RE2, a significant number of our employees are located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. As an organization, we do not have meaningful experience managing two large facilities and employee bases in different geographies and across different time zones. Any failure by our management team and our employees to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our ability to design, manufacture and launch our products or to operate our business and compete, as well as on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 42 Our management as a group has limited experience in operating a public company. Although some members of our management have public company experience, our management team may not successfully or effectively manage its transition to operating as a public company subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Our executive officers as a group have limited experience in the management of a publicly-traded company. Their limited experience in dealing with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies could be a significant disadvantage in that it is likely that an increasing amount of their time may be devoted to these activities which will result in less time being devoted to the management and growth of our company. We will need to recruit additional persons to join our management team in order to handle the increased demands of running a public company, but our efforts may not be successful. We may not have adequate personnel with the appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training in the accounting policies, practices or internal control over financial reporting required of public companies. Any failure by our management team to effectively and efficiently meet our obligations as a publicly-traded company could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results and/or result in legal liability or other negative consequences. We will incur significant increased expenses and administrative burdens as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. As a public company, we are incurring legal, accounting and other expenses that we previously did not have, and these expenses may increase even more after we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act. We are subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules adopted by the SEC and Nasdaq. Our management and other personnel will be devoting a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We have expanded our employee base and we will need to hire additional employees to support our operations as a public company, which will increase our operating costs in future periods. Moreover, we expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These increased costs will increase our net loss. For example, we expect it will be more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be forced to incur substantially higher costs to obtain appropriate coverage. We cannot accurately predict or estimate the amount or timing of the additional costs we may incur. The impact of being a public company could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Such increased expenses and administrative burdens involved in operating as a public company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 43 Ongoing impacts from COVID-19 or another pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business, and it, as well as other possible health pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks, may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results in the future. Our engineering and product development operations, among others, cannot all be conducted in a remote working structure and often require on-site access to materials and equipment. We have customers with international operations in varying industries. We also depend on suppliers and manufacturers worldwide. We are currently experiencing disruptions in our supply chain, as discussed in We are dependent on our suppliers, some of which are currently single, sole or limited source suppliers, and the inability of these suppliers to deliver necessary components of our products at prices and volumes, performance and specifications acceptable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results . We have not yet identified all of the suppliers that we are likely to rely on to support any future commercialization of our core products. Depending upon the duration of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the associated business interruptions, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and partners may suspend or delay their engagement with us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to meet current timelines. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our ability to recruit skilled employees to join our team and to meet our product development timelines. Our response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may prove to be inadequate and we may be unable to continue our operations in the manner we had prior to the outbreak, and may endure interruptions, reputational harm and delays in our product development and shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we cannot assure you as to the timing of any economic recovery, which could continue to have a material adverse effect on our target markets and our business. We may become subject to new or changing governmental regulations relating to the design, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, servicing or use of our products, and a failure to comply with such regulations could lead to withdrawal or recall of our products from the market , delay our projected revenues, increase costs or make our business unviable if we are unable to modify our products to comply. We may become subject to new or changing international, national, state and local regulations, including laws relating to the design, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, servicing or use of our products. Such laws and regulations may require us to pause sales and modify our products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Such laws and regulations can also give rise to liability, such as fines and penalties or for property damage, bodily injury and cleanup costs. Capital and operating expenses needed to comply with laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties, third-party damages, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations. Any failure to comply with such laws or regulations could lead to withdrawal or recall of our products from the market. We may experience significant delays in the design, development, production and launch of our robotic systems, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, are still in the development and testing phase. Initial production of commercial units of the Guardian XO and Guardian XT is not expected to begin until the end of 2022 and may occur later or not at all and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. Such timeline may be delayed, including due to challenges in recruiting skilled employees, difficulties in securing components and materials, design and development delays, difficulties relating to manufacturing of the units and other factors discussed under Initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, may be delayed beyond the end of 2022 and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. Any delay in the design, development, production and release of our products could materially damage our brand, business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We may experience delays in the design, development, production and release of new products, including due to integration, safety and performance issues. To the extent we delay the commercial launch of our robotic systems, our growth prospects and operating results will likely be adversely affected. We have no experience to date in high volume manufacture of our products , nor do we have the facility, employees or equipment needed to manufacture our products in high volumes. We intend to enter into contracts with one or more third-party manufacturers to produce our robotic systems. Our future third-party manufacturers may not be able to develop efficient, automated, low-cost production capabilities and processes and reliable sources of component supply to enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards, as well as the production volumes, required to successfully mass market our robotic systems. Even if we and our third-party manufacturers are successful in developing high volume production capability and processes and reliably sourcing components, we may not be able to avoid significant delays and cost overruns, including as a result of factors beyond our control such as problems with suppliers and vendors or force majeure events, meet our unit commercialization schedules or satisfy customer requirements. 44 If we are unable to enter into agreements with third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms, we will need to develop our own manufacturing and production capabilities, significantly increasing our capital expenditures and delaying production of our robotic systems. If this were to occur, we would need to raise or borrow additional money, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and possibly change our product pricing expectations, which could adversely affect our margins and cash flows. Any failure to develop production processes and capabilities within our projected costs and timelines could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. The period of time from initial design of our products to obtaining binding purchase commitments from customers is long and we are subject to the risk that customers who initially expressed an interest in our products during the design phase will not enter into binding commitments. Our products contain complex technology that requires multiple years of engineering and design. Therefore, the period of time from initial design of our products to obtaining binding purchase commitments from customers is long and we are subject to the risk that customers who initially expressed an interest in our products during the design phase will not enter into binding commitments. Our design of our products is significantly influenced by feedback from potential customers and reflect the needs they express. Further, some of our products have been designed to meet the specific use-cases of a particular customer. As a result, adapting our products to other industries or customers may require additional design, development, testing, work and expenses. We may not be able to adapt our products to reflect such feedback successfully or at all. If customers who initially express an interest in our proposed products and influenced their design ultimately decide to not enter into binding commitments or to adopt a competitors technology, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. Our ability to control costs and liability is dependent on developing sufficient screening criteria for our RaaS customers. Our ability to realize revenue and reduce liability related to our RaaS subscription model is heavily dependent on our ability to effectively screen customers for high-risk activities or environments that could result in higher costs for us. We have limited experience with our RaaS subscription model and may not be able to develop effective customer screening criteria. We may need to rely on third-party service providers to develop effective screening criteria, which will result in additional cost to us. Our screening criteria may also need to be adjusted over time to satisfy requirements under applicable law or from our insurers, lenders or other third-party service providers. We must balance the need to develop effective screening criteria with our need to attract new customers or market to different industry segments. Our business and prospects depend significantly on our ability to build our brands. We may not succeed in continuing to establish, maintain and strengthen our brands, and our brands and reputation could be harmed by negative publicity regarding us or our products. Our business and prospects are heavily dependent on our ability to develop, maintain and strengthen our brands. If we do not continue to establish, maintain and strengthen our brands, we may lose the opportunity to build a critical mass of customers. Promoting and positioning our brand will likely depend significantly on our ability to provide high quality products and engage with our customers as intended. In addition, our ability to develop, maintain and strengthen our brands may depend on the acceptance of our products by employees of our customers. To promote our brands, we may be required to change or expand our customer development and branding practices, which could result in substantially increased expenses. If we do not develop and maintain strong brands, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if safety incidents occur or are perceived to have occurred, whether or not such incidents are our fault, we could be subject to adverse publicity or resistance by employees of our customers or labor unions. In particular, given the popularity of social media, any negative publicity, whether true or not, could quickly proliferate and harm perceptions and confidence in our brands. Furthermore, there is the risk of potential adverse publicity related to our manufacturing or other partners whether or not such publicity is related to their collaboration with us. Our ability to successfully position our brands could also be adversely affected by perceptions about the quality of our competitors products. 45 We are dependent on our suppliers, some of which are currently single, sole or limited source suppliers, and any inability of these suppliers to deliver necessary components of our products at prices, volumes, performance and specifications acceptable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We have not yet identified all of the suppliers that we are likely to rely on to support any future commercialization of our core products. We rely on third-party suppliers for the provision and development of many of the key components and materials used in our products. We have not yet identified all of the suppliers, contractors and other third parties that we are likely to rely on to support the future commercialization of our products. While we plan to obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, some of the components used in our products may have to be purchased by us from a single source and some may only be available from a sole source, for example, if we have developed custom components with a supply partner. If our third-party suppliers are unable to supply key components and materials in the required volumes or at acceptable prices, our sales, revenues and profitability will likely be adversely affected and we may not be able to meet our obligations to customers. Our third-party suppliers may also not be able to meet the specifications and performance characteristics required by us, which would impact our ability to achieve our product specifications and performance characteristics as well. Additionally, our third-party suppliers may be unable to obtain required certifications for their products for which we plan to use or provide warranties that are necessary for our solutions. If we are unable to obtain components and materials used in our products from our suppliers, our business would be adversely affected. We have less negotiating leverage with suppliers than larger and more established companies and may not be able to obtain favorable pricing and other terms. For example, agreements with suppliers may include terms that are unfavorable to us, such as requirements that we order components and manufacturing units in excess of our demand due to minimum order quantity requirements or minimum price thresholds. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source components, we may be unable to do so in time to support our production needs, or at all, or at prices or quality levels that are favorable to us. Further, we may not be able to develop satisfactory alternatives to sole-sourced components. Any inability to find satisfactory alternatives to our single- and sole-sourced component suppliers could affect our costs and component availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, we and our suppliers are currently experiencing increases in the cost of and an interruption in the supply or shortage of materials. It is unclear how long these challenges will remain. Due to the complexity of our products, each unit is expected to contain several thousand components. Difficulty securing any components and materials could result in delays in the development of these core products, which delays could be compounded if components or units require redesign or reengineering, as discussed under Initial production of commercial units of our core products, the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, may be delayed beyond the end of 2022 and therefore initial delivery to customers could be beyond early 2023. Any sustained supply interruption or shortage or cost increases that result in our products being priced beyond what customers are willing to pay would prevent or delay the commercialization of our products and materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We and our suppliers use various materials in our businesses and products, including for example semiconductors, energy storage materials, commodity materials and specialty metal alloys, and the prices for these materials fluctuate. The available supply of some of these materials and components is currently and may continue to be unstable, depending on market conditions and global demand, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks relating to our supply chain include: Buy American or other similar requirements that may be imposed on government contractors; an increase in the cost, or decrease in the available supply, of semiconductor chips, electrical components, commodity materials and specialty alloys; the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; geopolitical and economic events and conditions, such as inflation, labor shortages and war, as well as responses to such events and conditions (e.g., economic sanctions); disruption in the supply of lithium-ion batteries due to quality issues or recalls or other factors; disruption in global logistics, such as increased rates, constrained capacity and extended shipping delays; and fluctuations in the value of any foreign currencies in which manufactured parts, commercial components and related raw material purchases are or may be denominated against the U.S. dollar. 46 Our business is dependent on the continued supply of lithium-ion battery cells. While we believe several sources of such cells are available, we have to date not finally sourced or validated a supplier for our commercial production and we may have limited flexibility in changing cell suppliers once contracted. Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from such suppliers could disrupt production of our products. Furthermore, fluctuations or shortages in raw materials or components and other economic conditions may cause us to experience significant increases in freight charges and material costs. Substantial increases in the prices for our materials, such as those charged by battery cell suppliers, would increase our operating costs, and could reduce our margins if the increased costs cannot be recouped through increased RaaS subscription offering or unit sales prices. Any attempts to increase product prices in response to increased material costs could result in cancellations of orders and reservations and therefore materially and adversely affect our brand, image, business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our potential transition to an outsourced manufacturing business model may not be successful, which could harm our ability to deliver products and recognize revenue. We intend to transition from a manufacturing model in which we primarily manufactured and assembled our products at a smaller scale at our facilities, to one where we rely on one or more third-party manufacturers. We are in discussions with third parties to provide contract manufacturing of our products; however, such discussions are more complicated because many of our products, including the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, are still undergoing design changes and improvements. Moreover, we may not be able to contract with potential counterparties on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We believe the use of third-party manufacturers will have benefits, but in the near term, while we are beginning manufacturing with one or more new partners, we may incur delays, lost revenue and increased costs. Reliance on third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, including reduced control over quality, product costs and product supply and timing. We may experience delays in shipments or issues concerning product quality from our third-party manufacturers. If any of our third-party manufacturers experience interruptions, delays or disruptions in supplying our products, including by natural disasters, the global COVID-19 pandemic, other health epidemics and outbreaks, geopolitical events, work stoppages or capacity constraints, our ability to ship products to distributors and customers would be delayed. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could result in financial distress among third-party manufacturers upon which we rely, thereby increasing the risk of disruption of supplies necessary to fulfill our production requirements and meet customer demands. While we take measures to protect our trade secrets, the use of third-party manufacturers may also risk disclosure of our innovative and proprietary technologies, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if any of our future third-party manufacturers experience quality control problems in their manufacturing operations and our products do not meet customer requirements, we could be required to recall the units or cover the cost of repair or replacement of any defective products. These delays or product quality issues could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill orders and on our operating results. In addition, such delays or issues with product quality could adversely affect our reputation and our relationship with our customers. If any third-party manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or experience shortages in required components, or if they are otherwise unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our products in required volumes or at all, our supply may be disrupted, we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers and we may be required to re-design our products. It would be time-consuming, and could be costly and impracticable, to begin to use new manufacturers and designs, and such changes could cause significant interruptions in supply and could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries and may subsequently lead to the loss of sales. 47 If we are unable to contract with a third-party manufacturing partner, we would need to develop our own manufacturing facilities, which may not be feasible and, if feasible, would significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating expenditures, and would significantly delay or inhibit production of our robotic systems. We do not have a definitive agreement with a third-party manufacturing partner to commercially manufacture our robotic systems and we may be unable to enter into such agreements with third-party manufacturing partners and other key suppliers for manufacturing on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Although discussions are continuing with potential counterparties, such discussions are more complicated because many of our products, including the Guardian XO and Guardian XT, are still undergoing design changes and improvements. We may not be able to contract with potential counterparties on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and we may need to use our own facilities for the initial production of commercial units of our products. If we are unable to enter into such definitive agreements or are only able to do so on terms that are less commercially favorable to us, we may be unable to timely identify adequate strategic relationship opportunities, or form strategic relationships, and consequently, we may not be able to fully carry out our business plans. We may not be able to partner with third parties on acceptable terms or at all or establish our own production capacity to meet our needs. The expense and time required to complete any transition and to assure that robotic systems manufactured at facilities of new third-party partners comply with our quality standards and regulatory requirements would likely be greater than currently anticipated. If we need to develop our own manufacturing and production capabilities at our own facilities, which may not be feasible, our capital and operating expenditures would significantly increase and production of our robotic systems would be significantly delayed. We may also need to raise or borrow additional money, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, it may require us to change the anticipated pricing of our RaaS subscription offering, which could adversely affect our margins and cash flows. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on our statements about our production plans or their feasibility in the timeframe anticipated, or at all. We may not be able to implement our business strategy in the timeframe anticipated, or at all. We may be unable to adequately control the costs associated with our operations. We will require significant capital to develop and grow our business, including developing and producing our commercial robotic systems and other products, establishing or expanding our design, research and development, production, sales and maintenance and service capabilities and building our brands. We have incurred and expect to continue incurring significant expenses which will impact our profitability, including research and development expenses (including related to developing and commercializing the Guardian XO and Guardian XT and the Sapien line of products), procurement costs, sales, marketing and distribution expenses as we build our brand and market our robotic systems and general and administrative expenses as we scale our operations, identify and commit resources to investigate new areas of demand and incur costs as a public company. Some of the factors that may lead to cost increases are outside of our control, such as national or global geopolitical and economic conditions, such as inflation or increases in interest rates. In addition, we may incur significant costs servicing, maintaining and refurbishing our robotic systems, and we expect that the cost to repair and service our robotic systems will increase over time as our robotic systems age. Our ability to become profitable in the future will not only depend on our ability to complete the design and development of our robotic systems to meet projected performance metrics and identify and investigate new areas of demand and successfully market our robotic systems and RaaS subscription model, but also on our ability to sell, whether outright or through subscriptions, our robotic systems at prices needed to achieve our expected margins and control our costs, including the risks and costs associated with operating, maintaining and financing our robotic systems. If we are unable to efficiently design, develop, manufacture, market, deploy, distribute and service our robotic systems in a cost-effective manner, our margins, profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We and our suppliers and any manufacturing partners may rely on complex machinery for production, which involves a significant degree of risk and uncertainty in terms of operational performance and costs. We and our suppliers and any manufacturing partners may rely on complex machinery for the production and assembly of our robotic systems, which will involve a significant degree of uncertainty and risk in terms of operational performance and costs. Our facilities, and those of any third-party manufacturing partners and suppliers, consist or are expected to consist of large-scale machinery combining many components. These components may suffer unexpected malfunctions from time to time and will depend on repairs and spare parts to resume operations, which may not be available when needed. Unexpected malfunctions of these components may significantly affect the intended operational efficiency. Operational performance and costs can be difficult to predict and are often influenced by factors outside of our or any third-party manufacturing partners and suppliers control, such as scarcity of natural resources, environmental hazards and remediation, costs associated with decommissioning of machines, labor disputes and strikes, difficulty or delays in obtaining governmental permits, damages or defects in electronic systems, industrial accidents, fire, seismic activity and natural disasters. Should operational risks materialize, it may result in the personal injury to or death of workers, the loss of production equipment, damage to production facilities, monetary losses, delays and unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage, administrative fines, increased insurance costs and potential legal liabilities, all which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 48 We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations. Our facilities or operations or those of any third-party manufacturers or suppliers could be adversely affected by events outside of our or their control, such as natural disasters, wars, health epidemics (see - " Ongoing impacts from COVID-19 or another pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results." ) and other calamities. Although we have servers that are hosted both onsite and at an offsite location, our backup system does not capture data on a real-time basis and we may be unable to recover certain data in the event of a server failure. Our backup systems may not be adequate to protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist attacks or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures or internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or the malfunction of software or hardware, as well as adversely affect our ability to provide services. We currently target many customers that are large corporations with substantial negotiating power, exacting product standards and potentially competitive internal solutions. If we are unable to sell our products to these customers, our prospects and results of operations will be adversely affected. We expect that many of our potential customers will be large, multinational corporations with substantial negotiating power relative to us and, in some instances, may have internal solutions that are competitive to our products. These large, multinational corporations also have significant development resources, which may allow them to acquire or develop independently, or in partnership with others, competitive technologies. Meeting the technical requirements and securing binding commitments from any of these companies will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We cannot assure you that our products will secure binding commitments from these or other companies or that we will generate meaningful revenue from the sales of our products to these key potential customers. If our products are not selected by these large corporations or if these corporations develop or acquire competitive technology, it will have an adverse effect on our business, which could be material. We operate in a competitive industry that is subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase. The robotics industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our robotics technology may be unable to keep up with changes in robotics technology or its alternatives and, as a result, our competitiveness may suffer. Developments in alternative technologies, such as artificial intelligence, may materially and adversely affect our competitiveness in ways we do not currently anticipate. Any failure by us to successfully react to changes in existing technologies could materially harm our competitive position and growth prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our product offerings compete in a broad competitive landscape that includes robotics and automation companies that have both directly competing as well as alternative solutions ranging from exoskeletons, collaborative robots, industrial robots, traditional lift-assist equipment, and unmanned robotic vehicles. We also view our competitive landscape to include rivals who have different but unique product lines in the automation space, like ABB Robotics, Siasun Robot & Automation, Teradyne and Berkshire Grey. Also included in our broader competitive landscape are robotic solution suppliers, like Rockwell Automation, Honeywell, Keyence Corporation, COGNEX Corporation and Hexagon AB, who may not have a directly competing product today, but could become competitors through inorganic growth; these companies have existing customer relationships and channels that could enable them to emerge as formidable threats in the future. A breakdown of the competitive landscape by product area: The Guardian XO competes with robotics and automation solutions that help workers with heavy materials handling, heavy lift-and-transport-assist, and overhead assembly type jobs. Principal competitors include Hyundai and Daewoo, who have previously shown powered exoskeleton prototype units, and companies like Cyberdyne, Samsung, Ekso Bionics, Ottobock, Lockheed Martin, SuitX and Levitate who currently sell powered, partial-body exoskeletons or passively-powered, partial-body variants. The Guardian XT faces a varied competitive landscape that includes companies like JR West, collaborative robotics companies and automation companies like Teradyne, ABB Robotics, Siasun Robot & Automation, Berkshire Grey, Ready Robotics and OMRON. The Sapien product line competes with products of various other companies, in some cases based on specific industry applications, such as Nauticus, SRS and Saab in the underwater solution space; Barrett, Kuka, Kinova and Staubli in the medical device industry; AES in solar construction applications; and BBHS, Juvo Robotics and Kuka in aviation services. 49 The Guardian S competes with other ground-based unmanned vehicles offered by companies such as Eddyfi Technologies and Waygate Technologies; it also competes with aerial unmanned vehicle companies, like Flyability, in the oil and gas industry. Other notable adjacent market and other competitors include Gecko Robotics, Teledyne FLIR, ICM, RedZone Robotics, Clearpath Robotics, and Easysight Technology. These companies have products that are commercially available and in development. We expect some products currently in development to become commercially available in the next few years. In addition, we compete with companies that develop artificial intelligence and industrial automation solutions, such as those offered by Hyundai-Boston Dynamics, Canvas Technology, DroneSense, Intuitive, iRobot, Hahn Robotics, Kuka, Neurala, Ready Robotics, Rethink Robotics and Yaskawa. Our competitor base may change or expand as we continue to develop and commercialize our robotic systems in the future. These or other competitors may develop new technologies or products that provide superior results to customers or are less expensive than our products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do, or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, potential customers could have long-standing or contractual relationships with competitors. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt our products, particularly if they compete with or have the potential to compete with, or diminish the need/utilization of products or technologies supported through these existing relationships. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, because we operate in new and evolving markets, the actions of our competitors could adversely affect our business. Adverse events such as product defects or legal claims with respect to competing or similar products could cause reputational harm to the robotics market as a whole and, accordingly, our business. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period due to fluctuations in our operating costs, product demand and other factors. We expect our period-to-period financial results to vary based on our operating costs and product demand, which we anticipate will fluctuate as the pace at which we continue to design, develop and manufacture new robotic systems, increase production capacity and establish or expand design, research and development, production, sales and service facilities. Additionally, our revenues from period to period may fluctuate as we identify and investigate areas of demand, adjust volumes and add new product derivatives based on market demand and margin opportunities, develop and introduce new robotic systems or introduce existing robotic systems to new markets for the first time, as well as introduce our RaaS subscription model. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results, especially in the short term, are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Moreover, our financial results may not meet expectations of equity research analysts, ratings agencies or investors, who may be focused only on quarterly financial results. If any of this occurs, the trading price of our securities could fall substantially, either suddenly or over time, and/or experience significant volatility. Both Old Sarcos and Rotor identified a material weakness in their internal control over financial reporting prior to the closing of the Business Combination. If we are unable to develop and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Our management is likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Old Sarcos identified certain accounting errors related to its financial statements. As a result, Old Sarcos management concluded that a material weakness existed in its internal control over financial reporting related to the identification and review of technical issues associated with certain unique, unusual and nonstandard transactions within Old Sarcos equity process. As a result of this material weakness, Old Sarcos management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2020. 50 On April 12, 2021, the Acting Director of the Division of Corporation Finance and Acting Chief Accountant of the SEC together issued a statement regarding the accounting and reporting considerations for warrants issued by special purpose acquisition companies entitled Staff Statement on Accounting and Reporting Considerations for Warrants Issued by Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (the SEC Statement). Following the issuance of the SEC Statement, after consultation with its independent registered public accounting firm, Rotors management and its audit committee concluded that, in light of the SEC Statement, it was appropriate to restate the previously issued audited balance sheet as of January 20, 2021 (the Restatement). As part of such process, Rotor identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2021, management has determined that this material weakness has been remediated as the previously issued financial statements have been restated and the Company is now accounting for the Private Placement warrants in accordance with the SEC Statement. As a result of the material weakness identified related to Old Sarcos discussed above we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2022, see Part I