Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, the Company, Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, "Sarcos," we, us, and our refers to Sarcos Technology and Robotics Corporation, and its subsidiaries, collectively. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report (this Report) as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K) and our other filings, including Current Reports on Form 8-K, that we have filed with the SEC through the date of this Report. As discussed in the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements below, in addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements relate to expectations for future financial performance, business strategies or expectations for our business. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to: our ability to sell our products to new and existing customers; our product roadmap, including expected timing of new product releases; our ability to manage and overcome supply chain challenges, including increases in the cost of and an interruption in the supply or availability of components, parts and materials; competition from existing or future businesses and technologies; our ability to manage our growth and expenses; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applicable to our business; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with the necessary experience; our ability to introduce new products that meet our customers requirements and to successfully transition to high volume manufacturing of our products by third-party manufacturers or by us; our projected financial and operating information and estimates of market size and opportunities; our future financial performance; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and global economic and geopolitical conditions on our business and the business of our customers; changes in the markets for our products and services; expansion plans and opportunities, including plans to expand our product availability globally; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; our ability to defend and the outcome of any known and unknown litigation and regulatory proceedings; our ability to maintain and protect our brand; and other statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words may, can, should, will, estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, aim, target or similar expressions. 24 These forward-looking statements are based on information available as of the date of this Report and our managements current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve a number of judgments, risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date, and, in any event, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those factors described in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this Report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview We are a technology leader in the design, development and manufacture of advanced robotic systems, solutions and software that redefine human possibilities. We design, develop and produce highly-dexterous mobile robotic systems and solutions for use in dynamic and unstructured environments and develop related software, including our AI/ML (artificial intelligence/machine learning) software platform to enable generalizable autonomy. Our mission is to increase worker productivity and longevity and prevent injuries through robotics. Our robotic systems are designed to augment and increase human productivity, rather than replace humans, by combining human intelligence, instinct and judgment with the strength, endurance and precision of machines. We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30 years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies and our extensive patent portfolio. Through our development efforts on products such as the Guardian XO, Guardian XT, Guardian XM and Guardian Sea Class, we have developed a significant amount of advanced technology that we are leveraging across our systems and solutions. In addition, we have been developing AI software and technologies for many years. We believe our foundational technology developed over many years is a key competitive strength as we continue to develop and work to commercialize our products. On July 12, 2023, we announced that we had refined our sales strategy to focus on products that we believe have the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities that we believe show the greatest market traction and meet an acute customer need. These products include our Guardian Sea Class system and certain aviation (baggage handling and exterior aircraft maintenance) and solar (solar field panel installation) solutions, as well as our commercial AI autonomy software platform to enable generalizable autonomy. Each of these focus products has been under development for some time. We made the decision to focus on these products based on a combination of our views and expectations of customer demand, supply chain constraints and overall manufacturing and product technical readiness. In addition, we announced steps to optimize our organization in pursuit of these product opportunities and to reduce costs, including reducing headcount and consolidating our Pittsburgh manufacturing into our Salt Lake City location. In connection with the restructuring, we incurred charges of $5.1 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, related to the write-down of inventory and fixed assets. We anticipate incurring additional restructuring expense related to the reduction of headcount of approximately $6.0 million, net, during the third quarter of 2023, which includes approximately $1.5 million in cash severance and benefit payments. The remainder of the additional restructuring expense is anticipated to be non-cash adjustments largely related to the acceleration of stock-based compensation expense resulting from the accelerated termination of our redemption right over certain shares held by our former Chief Operating Officer in connection with the expected termination of his employment during the third quarter of 2023. As a result of the narrowing and refinement of our sales strategy, and optimization of our organization we expect research and development, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses, exclusive of the additional restructuring expenses discussed above, to decrease significantly during the latter half of 2023. Based on feedback from our development customers and potential commercial customers, we have decided to offer our systems and solutions primarily through a sales business model where the customer purchases a system or solution for a one-time, upfront amount. We currently intend to offer our commercial AI autonomy software through a software-as-a-service (SaaS) revenue model. We also plan 25 to offer software upgrades and additional capabilities and to offer for sale add-on hardware components (such as additional interchangeable end-effectors). Continuing Impact of COVID-19 We took several actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that resulted in significant disruptions to how we operate our business. Our customers and partners adopted similar policies. Although many of these measures are no longer in effect, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, an adverse impact on certain parts of our business as a result of measures to mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic and their resulting economic effects. Further, discontinued measures could be reinstituted, for example as a result of government requirements or in response to new variants of COVID-19. We have experienced and may continue to experience disruptions in our supply chain, due in part to the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Depending upon the duration of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the associated business interruptions, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and partners may suspend or delay their engagements with us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to meet current timelines. In an effort to manage potential supply chain risks, in particular long and unpredictable lead-times, we have accelerated and expect to continue to accelerate purchases of various materials, parts and components for the foreseeable future to support product development and current and future production of our commercial systems and solutions, which has increased and will likely continue to increase our use of cash. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected and may continue to affect our ability to recruit skilled employees to join our team. The conditions caused by the pandemic have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect, among other things, demand for our products and the ability to test and assess our robotic systems with potential customers any of which adversely affects our business, results of operations and financial condition. The duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts cannot be accurately predicted at this time, and the ultimate direct and indirect impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain. We will continue to monitor the global impact of COVID-19 and its effects on our business and operations closely. We do not yet know the full extent of potential impacts on our business or operations. In particular, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Given this uncertainty, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results We believe that our performance and future success depend on several factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors. Development, Testing and Commercial Launch of our Products We are focusing our business efforts on products that we believe have the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities that we believe show the greatest market traction and meet an acute customer need. These products include our Guardian Sea Class system and certain aviation (baggage handling and exterior aircraft maintenance) and solar (solar field panel installation) solutions, as well as a commercial AI autonomy software platform to enable generalizable autonomy. We believe that our ability to successfully develop, launch and sell these commercial products will determine our near- to mid-term financial success. We made the decision to focus on these products based on a combination of our views and expectations of customer demand, supply chain constraints and overall manufacturing and product technical readiness. Whether we are successful depends on many factors, including those discussed under Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business. Such risks may result in delay of the anticipated commercial launch of one or more of our products, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Financing of Operations Prior to commercialization, we must complete the development, testing and manufacturing requirements of our products. As a result, we will spend a material portion of our cash on hand to develop our products and fund operations for the foreseeable future. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to manufacture, sell and deliver commercial products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital requirements to build commercial products prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. As sales volumes increase, we may seek outside financing to help cover production costs for product orders. In addition, we have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. For example, on July 12, 2023 we announced a reduction in force ("RIF") intended to further conserve the Companys current cash resources and manage operating expenses. The majority of the cash payments related to these expenses will be paid out during the third quarter of 2023. The reduction in force is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate into 2025 without the need to raise additional capital. However, we expect to need 26 additional capital before becoming cash flow positive, which we do not expect to achieve until at least 2025. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists to bolster our cash reserves, reduce our financial risk, help finance product manufacturing and inventory costs and pursue business objectives. We currently have no plans to do an equity financing in 2023, but we could change our plans if we determine it to be necessary or advisable. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. Acquisition and Integration of RE2 On April 25, 2022, we acquired RE2, Inc., a Pittsburgh, PA based developer of manipulator arms with human-like performance, intuitive robot interfaces and advanced autonomy capabilities. The results presented and discussed below include the activity for RE2 from the acquisition date through June 30, 2023. Our results do not include RE2s financial information prior to the acquisition. Customer Demand As a result of interactions with potential customers, which generally communicated a near-term preference for specific solutions rather than more general purpose systems (other than the Guardian Sea Class), we determined to refine our sales and product development strategy to focus on products that we believe have the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities that we believe show the greatest market traction and meet an acute customer need. These products include our Guardian Sea Class system and certain aviation (baggage handling and exterior aircraft maintenance) and solar (solar field panel installation) solutions, as well as a commercial AI software platform to enable generalizable autonomy. Because our robotic systems and solutions represent new product categories or advancements in markets that currently rely generally on conventional, manual systems, or low function manipulation mechanisms, the market demand for our products is unproven, and important assumptions about the characteristics of targeted markets, pricing and sales cycles may be inaccurate. Market demand for our AI autonomy software and our ability to successfully develop this software into a commercial product are similarly unproven. If customer demand does not develop as expected or we do not accurately forecast pricing, adoption rates and sales cycles for our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Manufacturing of Our Products To the extent we obtain commercial orders for our products, we will need to manufacture and deliver them to our customers. We have entered into an agreement with a third-party contract manufacturer and expect to generally outsource manufacturing of our products over time. However, engaging with a manufacturing partner will likely require significant time, ramp-up, testing and coordination before high-volume production capability by the partner is achieved. Further, the timing of this process will likely be delayed due to our new sales and product development strategy. We currently do not anticipate high-volume production by our contract manufacturing partner to be in place until after 2023. We expect that this contract manufacturing partner will initially focus on helping us produce product sub-systems. With our refined sales strategy and focus products, we may be unable to successfully transition our contract manufacturing partner to our new focus products, provide it with sufficient volume or otherwise maintain the relationship. However, we believe we have sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet near-term demand for our focus products. For additional information around the risks associated with contract manufacturing see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors Our expected transition to an outsourced manufacturing business model may not be successful, which could harm our ability to deliver products and recognize revenue. Continued Investment and Innovation We are a pioneer in the robotic systems industry and benefit from lessons learned over 30 years and significant investment in research and development in our proprietary technologies and our extensive patent portfolio. However, we believe our financial performance is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain this leading position and further dependent on the investments we make in research and development. It is important that we continually identify and respond to rapidly evolving customer requirements and competitive threats, develop and introduce innovative products, enhance and service our products and generate active market demand for our products. If we fail to do this, our market position and revenue may be adversely affected, and our investments in these technologies will not be recovered. Geopolitical and Macro-economic Environment Geopolitical and macro-economic factors, such as inflation, rising interest rates, oil prices, unemployment rates, the war in Ukraine, volatility in the stock market and political or social unrest, can have significant impacts on economic activity, which in turn could affect demand for our products or our ability to cost-effectively develop, sell and manufacture our products. Among other things, these and similar factors can affect our supply chain, our ability to hire qualified personnel, our labor and materials costs, the prices we charge for our products and the budgets of our customers and their expected return-on-investment from the purchase of or subscription for our 27 products. Many of these factors are outside of our control but can have a significant impact on our business success and operating results. If we are unable to manage our business successfully in response to any such factors, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Results of Operations The discussion below regarding our results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 includes the financial results of RE2 beginning on the acquisition date through June 30, 2023. Our results do not include RE2s financial information prior to the acquisition. Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023, and 2022 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 1,274 $ 2,982 $ (1,708 ) (57 )% Product Revenue 3 56 (53 ) (95 )% Revenue, net $ 1,277 $ 3,038 $ (1,761 ) (58 )% Revenue decreased by $1.8 million, or 58%, from $3.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $1.7 million, or 57%, from $3.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the completion of certain product development contracts during the first half of 2023 that have not yet been replaced with new contracts. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. We continue to take on only those contracts that support and contribute to our commercialization efforts. As we focus on initial commercial sales of our products, our product development contract revenue is expected to decrease as a percentage of total revenue. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales was not significant for the three months ended June 30, 2022 or the three months ended June 30, 2023. For the period ended June 30, 2022, the lack of product sales was due to our focus on product development in preparation for the commercial launch of certain products. For the period ended June 30, 2023, we believe the lack of product sales was primarily due to various factors, including customer budget constraints, the impact on potential customers of macroeconomic factors and lack of near-term customer need for our general purpose systems (other than the Guardian Sea Class). As described elsewhere in this Report, as a result of interactions with potential customers, which generally communicated a near-term preference for specific solutions rather than more general purpose systems (other than the Guardian Sea Class), we have determined to refine our sales and product development strategy to focus on products that we believe have the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities that we believe show the greatest market traction and meet an acute customer need. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 943 $ 3,146 $ (2,203 ) (70 )% Research and development 11,706 7,569 4,137 55 % General and administrative 8,252 18,146 (9,894 ) (55 )% Sales and marketing 4,410 2,586 1,824 71 % Intangible amortization expense 819 574 245 43 % Asset write-down and restructuring 5,106 5,106 *NM Total operating expenses $ 31,236 $ 32,021 $ (785 ) (2 )% 28 *NM - Not Meaningful Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $2.2 million, or 70%, from $3.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $0.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Cost of revenue decreased mainly due to decreased labor and material expenses charged to product development contracts during the three months ended June 30, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $4.1 million, or 55% from $7.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $11.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was driven primarily by increased labor and overhead expense as a result of increased headcount (due in part to the RE2 acquisition) and the shift of labor from cost of revenue to research and development due to the timing of new product development contracts being signed and the focus on new product development and commercialization efforts. As a result, allocated overhead and fringe related costs also increased due to the increase in labor costs. We continue to prioritize our efforts on development and commercialization of our focus products. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $9.9 million, or 55%, from $18.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $8.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense of $8.5 million due to certain awards vesting in the prior year. In addition to the decrease in stock-based compensation expense, business insurance expense decreased during the current year period to more favorable rates resulting from the latest renewal and legal fees decreased in comparison to the prior year period due to the lack of acquisition-related legal expenses arising from the RE2 acquisition during the prior year period. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $1.8 million, or 71%, from $2.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, to $4.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. This increase was driven by an increase in professional service fees related to third-party platform expense utilized in data management of our products and services and increased promotional and event expense during the current year period. Intangible Amortization Expense Intangible amortization expense increased by $0.2 million, from $0.6 million for three months ended June 30, 2022, to $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The increase in intangible amortization expense is due to the recognition of amortization expenses on identified intangible assets recorded as part of the RE2 acquisition. Asset Write-down and Restructuring Asset write-down and restructuring expenses were $5.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, which includes a write-down of $4.4 million of inventory and $0.7 million of impairment of certain fixed assets as a result our product development reprioritization. Other Income The following table presents other income for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 874 $ 148 $ 726 491 % Gain on warrant liability 439 4,113 (3,674 ) (89 )% Other loss, net (11 ) (2 ) (9 ) 450 % Total other income $ 1,302 $ 4,259 $ (2,957 ) (69 )% 29 Other income decreased by $3.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023 as compared to the prior year period, as a result of the decrease in unrealized mark-to-market gain on our outstanding private placement warrants, partially offset by increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities. Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue, Net The following table presents our revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Product Development Contract Revenue $ 3,570 $ 3,715 $ (145 ) (4 )% Product Revenue 3 66 (63 ) (95 )% Revenue, net $ 3,573 $ 3,781 $ (208 ) (6 )% Revenue decreased by $0.2 million, or 6%, from $3.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, to $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, as explained below. Product Development Contract Revenue Product development contract revenue decreased by $0.1 million, or 4%, from $3.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022 to $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the completion of certain product development contracts during the first half 2023 that have not yet been replaced with new contracts. We expect future revenue from product development contracts to fluctuate due to the timing of additional development contracts signed and the completion of existing contracts. We continue to take on only those contracts that we believe support and contribute to our product commercialization efforts. As we focus on initial commercial product sales, our product development contract revenue is expected to decrease as a percentage of total revenue. Product Revenue Revenue derived from product sales was not significant for the six months ended June 30, 2022 or the six months ended June 30, 2023. For the period ended June 30, 2022, the lack of product sales was due to our focus on product development in preparation for the commercial launch of certain products. For the period ended June 30, 2023, we believe the lack of product sales was primarily due to various factors, including budget constraints, the impact on potential customers of macroeconomic factors and lack of near-term customer need for our general purpose systems (other than the Guardian Sea Class). As described elsewhere in this Report, as a result of interactions with potential customers, which generally communicated a near-term preference for specific solutions rather than more general purpose systems (other than the Guardian Sea Class), we have determined to refine our sales and product development strategy to focus on products that we believe have the most potential for near-term revenue growth and strategic opportunities that we believe show the greatest market traction and meet an acute customer need. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022: Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 2,729 $ 3,634 $ (905 ) (25 )% Research and development 21,109 13,450 7,659 57 % General and administrative 17,987 35,938 (17,951 ) (50 )% Sales and marketing 8,151 4,797 3,354 70 % Intangible amortization expense 1,638 574 1,064 185 % Asset write-down and restructuring 5,106 5,106 *NM Total operating expenses $ 56,720 $ 58,393 $ (1,673 ) (3 )% *NM - Not Meaningful 30 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $0.9 million, or 25%, from $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, to $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Cost of revenue decreased mainly due to decreased labor and material expense charged to product development contracts during the six months ended June 30, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $7.7 million, or 57% from $13.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, to $21.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in labor and overhead expense as a result of increased headcount (due in part to the RE2 acquisition) and the shift of labor from cost of revenue to research and development due to the timing of new product development contracts being signed and the focus on new product development and commercialization efforts. As a result, allocated overhead and fringe related costs also increased due to the increase in labor costs. We continue to prioritize our efforts on development and commercialization of our focus products. General and Administrative General and administrative expense decreased by $18.0 million, or 50%, from $35.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, to $18.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. General and administrative expense decreased primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense of $16.8 million due to certain awards vesting in the prior year. In addition to the decrease in stock-based compensation expense, business insurance expenses decreased during the current year period to more favorable rates resulting from the latest renewal and legal fees decreased in comparison to the prior year due to the lack of acquisition-related legal expenses arising from the RE2 acquisition during the prior year period. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $3.4 million, or 70%, from $4.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022, to $8.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. This increase was driven by an increase in professional service fees related to third-party platform expense utilized in data management of our products and services, increased promotional and event expense during the current year period, and increased expenses related to additional headcount due in part to our RE2 acquisition. Intangible Amortization Expense Intangible amortization expense increased by $1.1 million, from $0.6 million for six months ended June 30, 2022, to $1.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023. The increase in intangible amortization expense is due to the recognition of amortization expenses on identified intangible assets recorded as part of the RE2 acquisition. Asset Write-down and Restructuring Asset write-down and restructuring expenses were $5.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, which includes a write-down of $4.4 million of inventory and $0.7 million of impairment of certain fixed assets as a result our product development reprioritization. Other Income The following table presents other income for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively: Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Other income Interest income, net $ 1,973 $ 159 $ 1,814 1,141 % Gain on warrant liability 3 10,527 (10,524 ) (100 )% Other income, net 1,038 1,038 *NM Total other income $ 3,014 $ 10,686 $ (7,672 ) (72 )% *NM - Not Meaningful Other income decreased by $7.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 as compared to the prior year period as a result of the decrease in unrealized mark-to-market gain on our outstanding private placement warrants, partially offset by increased interest income from our investments in marketable securities and increased other income related to employee retention credit refunds received. Liquidity and Capital Resources 31 We currently use cash to fund operations and capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. As of June 30, 2023, we had $75.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand will be sufficient to support operations, working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months from the date of this Report. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our product development efforts, our ability to manufacture and deliver commercial products and thereby recognize associated revenue, capital requirements to build commercial products prior to receiving payments sufficient to cover our costs and our ability to lower product costs as volumes increase. Any delays in the successful commercialization of our products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance. In addition, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, which may require acquisition capital as well as operational capital for these acquisitions or arrangements. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to facilitate these arrangements. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, for acquisitions or for other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through additional debt or equity financings or from other sources. As sales volumes increase, we may seek outside financing to help cover production costs for product orders. We have taken numerous steps to manage our use of cash, including the reduction in force announced on July 12, 2023 and other related actions, and believe we have sufficient capital to fund our business for at least the next 12 months without seeking additional capital. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate into 2025 without the need to raise additional capital. However, we expect to need additional capital before becoming cash flow positive, which we do not expect to achieve until at least 2025. As a result, we intend to continue monitoring our liquidity, financial and business results and outlook and market conditions, and may be opportunistic and raise capital when we consider market conditions are good or a favorable opportunity exists to bolster our cash reserves, reduce our financial risk, help finance product manufacturing and inventory costs and pursue business objectives. We currently have no plans to do an equity financing in 2023, but we could change our plans if we determine it to be necessary or advisable. Any delays in the successful commercialization and sales of our products will negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, our profitability and our overall operating performance and result in the need to raise additional capital sooner than expected. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our equity holders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing equity holders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be available on terms favorable to us or that we find acceptable. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow data for the periods presented: Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 Change (In thousands) 2023 2022 Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Net cash used in operating activities $ (39,985 ) $ (27,924 ) $ (12,061 ) 43 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 30,455 (109,884 ) 140,339 (128 )% Net cash used in financing activities (63 ) (6,047 ) 5,984 (99 )% Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents $ (9,593 ) $ (143,855 ) $ 134,262 (93 )% Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2023 increased by $12.1 million to $40.0 million from $27.9 million during the same period in 2022. The increase to net cash used in operating activities was primarily attributable to a $7.8 million increase to net loss, a net decrease of $0.8 million in non-cash expenses driven mainly by decreased stock-based compensation partially offset by decreased gains on warrant liability revaluation and increased asset write-down and restructuring expenses. Additionally, net cash used in operating activities related to changes in operating assets and liabilities increased by $3.4 million, driven mainly by increased inventory purchases and decreases in accrued liabilities, partially offset by decreases in unbilled receivables. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 32 Our net cash provided by investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2023 increased by $140.3 million. The increase in cash provided by investing activities is predominantly due to $31.1 million of maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, during the six months ended June 30, 2023, as compared to the purchase of short-term marketable securities of $79.5 million and $29.7 million of net cash was included as part of the purchase consideration for the RE2 acquisition during the six months ended June 30, 2022. Net Cash Used In Financing Activities Our net cash used in financing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2023 decreased by $6.0 million as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in financing activities was mainly due to a $6.6 million decrease in funds used to repurchase shares of common stock that were withheld for payment of tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of equity awards. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.235 billion or more during such fiscal year (as indexed for inflation), (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in the prior three-year period or (iv) December 31, 2025, and we expect to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the financial statements. Generally, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions in accordance with GAAP that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies or estimates as disclosed in our 2022 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Report.