Item 2 : Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this Quarterly Report that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements (including forward-looking statements relating to remedial actions taken or to be taken by us to address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting described in Item 4. Control and Procedures below, the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: the ineffectiveness or insufficiency of our remedial actions to correct identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services designed for the needs of restaurants and retailers. The Company's government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. The Company's products sold in the hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's strategy is to provide integrated technology solutions, together with industry leading customer service. The Companys research and development efforts are focused on creating innovative, scalable technology that not only meets customer requirements, but exceeds customer expectations and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 17 Table of Contents The Company is focused on expanding its hospitality business through its continued investment, not only in its current products, but in the development of new and existing cloud based software applications. PARs products include the Brink POS software used in the fast casual market, with integrated features that include loyalty, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting and mobile dashboard. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications, including the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. PARs primary market is the Quick Serve Restaurant market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. PAR primarily sells its hardware platforms and lifecycle support services to this market, specifically, within PARs Tier 1 clients. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. With its investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. Through outstanding performance on existing contracts, the Company has been able to consistently win follow-ons and extensions of existing contracts. The Company has grown beyond many of the size standards that advantage small businesses. To sustain growth, the Company is expanding a set of key partnerships that enable the pursuit of both follow-on and new contracts within the current portfolio while expanding into adjacent customer and technology spaces. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. Internal Investigation; Internal Controls As reported in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2015 the Company discovered that its (now former) Chief Financial Officer had engaged in unauthorized investments totaling $776,000. The ensuing investigation was concluded in the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016. While the Company expects that insurance proceeds will offset a portion of the loss, we will not recognize expected insurance payments until such payment is received. In addition to seeking insurance recovery, the Company has reported the matter to, and is cooperating with, various federal law enforcement agencies. Internal remedial actions taken by the Company in response to this matter are discussed below in