Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are made as of the date of this filing and PAR assumes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS The Company PAR Technology Corporation (NYSE: PAR), through its consolidated subsidiaries ParTech, Inc. (ParTech) and PAR Government Systems Corporation (PAR Government), operates in two distinct reporting segments, Restaurant/Retail and Government. Restaurant/Retail Segment We provide leading omnichannel cloud-based software and hardware solutions to the restaurant and retail industries. Our product and service offerings include point-of-sale, customer engagement and loyalty, digital ordering and delivery, operational intelligence technologies, payment processing, hardware, and related technologies, solutions, and services. Our omnichannel solutions are used by more than 700 restaurant customers and can be found in more than 70,000 active restaurant locations. We provide enterprise restaurants, franchisees, and other restaurant outlets in the three major restaurant categories - quick service, fast casual, and table service - with operational efficiencies through a data-driven network with integration capabilities from point-of-sale to the kitchen, to fulfillment. Our mission is to enable personalized experiences that connect people to the brands, meals, and moments they love; and our strategy to achieve this mission is grounded in delivering a unified experience across our comprehensive suite of subscription services, hardware, and professional services that simplifies our customers' operations, elevates their customer engagement, and drives their continued success. PAR's vision of unified experience is a single platform that provides seamless connections from the restaurants backend systems through to their customer-facing channels enabling restaurant enterprises to deliver innovation, differentiated experiences and competitive advantage. It's the setup enterprise restaurants require to support omnichannel journeys and create a unified view of customer interactions, products, and management systems. We continuously strive to enhance and expand our omnichannel solutions to provide full integration of data points that drive guest satisfaction and operational efficiencies for restaurant enterprises across our offerings. 3 Table of Contents Products and Services Subscription services Our subscription services consist of software-as-a-service ("SaaS") solutions, related software support, and transaction-based payment processing services, and are grouped into three categories: Guest Engagement, offering customer facing solutions: PUNCHH, an enterprise-grade customer loyalty and engagement solution that enables customers to deliver personalized promotions to their customers to increase customer lifetime value and same-store sales. Punchh seamlessly integrates with our customers existing systems, providing AI-powered tools to deliver omnichannel loyalty experiences and campaigns to engage their customers, create real-time 360-degree insights and drive repeat purchases and higher average spend. MENU, an eCommerce platform for global restaurant brands, powering all digital customer touchpoints from mobile, web, kiosk to delivery marketplaces. MENU provides restaurant brands with the tools they need to grow their digital business, manage orders from all channels and for all order types, orchestrate their delivery operations, and fully control their digital experience to retain a direct customer relationship. Operator Solutions, offering front-of-house operator solutions: BRINK POS, an open cloud, point-of-sale solution that provides operators with tools to seamlessly integrate with multiple product offerings - including kiosks, kitchen video systems, and enterprise reporting - through PAR's ecosystem of integration partners. PAR PAYMENT SERVICES, our merchant services business that enables electronic payment and processing services for businesses of all sizes to accept electronic payments online or in-person. Par Pay is the front-end technology that reads payment cards and sends customer information to the merchant acquiring bank for processing. Combined, they offer a comprehensive payment processing solution that allows our customers to accept a variety of payments methods including debit and credit cards, near-field communication ("NFC") contactless, mobile devices, digital wallets and gift cards. Back Office, offering back-of-house operator solutions: DATA CENTRAL, a back-office solution that leverages business intelligence and automation technologies to manage labor, food costs, and inventory, and perform enterprise reporting. Data Central provides customers with the necessary tools to achieve peak operational and financial efficiency; it serves as the central hub of restaurant intelligence by collecting information from point-of-sale, inventory, supply, payroll and accounting systems to provide actionable insights and a comprehensive view of a restaurants operations. Our SaaS solutions are extensible and built on open application programming interfaces (API) enabling integration by more than 500 integration partners, including leading industry brands, to extend the reach and capabilities of our SaaS solutions and those of our integration partners. Hardware Our hardware offerings include point-of-sale terminals and tablets, wireless headsets, drive-thru systems, kitchen display systems, payment devices, and other in-store peripherals: Point-of-Sale Hardware. Our POS hardware platforms are designed to reliably operate in harsh environments associated with food service. PAR hardware terminals - PAR WAVE, EVERSERV 600, and PAR PHASE - and tablets are durable and highly functioning, scalable, and easily integrated, offering customers competitive performance at a cost-conscious price. Our open architecture POS platforms are optimized to support our SaaS solutions, as well as many third-party POS software applications, support a distributed processing environment and are suitable for a broad range of use and functions within the markets served. Wireless Communications, Drive-Thru Systems. Our wireless headsets for drive-thru order-taking provide our customers with another means to deliver their products and serve their customers. The PAR G5 headset 4 Table of Contents provides clear audio, all-day battery life, and an ergonomic fit. PAR's drive-thru timer systems provide crew and managers near-real-time feedback to improve speed of service and meet performance targets. In-Store Peripherals. We partner with numerous vendors that offer in-store peripherals, including kitchen display systems, payment devices, cash drawers, and printers, allowing us to deliver a comprehensive and completely integrated hardware solution. Professional services We provide a comprehensive portfolio of support services to our customers, including hardware repair, installation and implementation, training, and on-site and technical support. Hardware repair. We offer depot repair, warranty, and overnight Advanced Exchange services from our offices in San Diego, California, Mississauga, Ontario, and our corporate headquarters in New Hartford, New York. Installation and implementation. We offer hardware installation and software implementation services. Training. We offer complete application training to customers in-store staff and provide technical training to our customers information systems personnel. On-site and technical support. We offer on-site support in the continental U.S. through our field tech service network, and 24-hour help desk support from our diagnostic service centers located in New Hartford, New York and Tampa, Florida. Outside of the continental U.S., we provide our professional services either directly or through authorized providers. Markets and Distribution We sell our products and services to enterprise restaurants, franchisees, and other restaurant outlets and to convenience stores and other retail customers, including amusement parks, movie theaters, cruise lines, spas, casinos, and other ticketing and entertainment venues through dedicated internal sales teams and channel partners. We have longstanding relationships with several of the largest brands in the Restaurant/Retail segment, including as an approved provider of restaurant technology solutions and related support to McDonald's Corporation and its franchisees since 1980 and to Yum! Brands since 1983; these two brands represent 17% of our total revenue. Competition The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete on the basis of features and functionality, user experience, integration capabilities, method of delivery (cloud versus traditional on-premise software applications), existing and planned product design, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price, and customer service. Many of our larger customers have several approved suppliers of software and hardware similar to one or more of our products. While we believe our open integration platform, omnichannel cloud-based software and hardware solutions, with enterprise-grade products and purpose-built hardware, combined with our advanced development capabilities, extensive domain knowledge and expertise, excellent product reliability, direct sales team, and responsive customer service and support, are competitive advantages, the rapid and increased adoption of new technologies (including artificial intelligence), introduction of new product and service offerings, and aggressive pricing are among some of the factors and strategies that can affect our ability to successfully compete. Additionally, we face competition from companies who have greater financial and technical resources, more relevant product and service offerings, and larger established customer bases. Furthermore, we expect that our industry will continue to attract new market entrants, including smaller emerging companies. We may also expand into new markets and encounter additional competitors in such markets. 5 Table of Contents Supply We have agreements for the supply of hardware products and components, including long-term or volume-based purchase agreements with some suppliers, and we have identified alternative sources in the event one or more of our suppliers are not able to perform or fully perform; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely secure alternative product or components or continue our current supplier agreements on similar terms, or at all. Many of the products and components used by us have been, and may in the future be, subject to industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations. We have experienced a shortage in the number of suppliers and those suppliers' availability of certain products and components, for example, certain batteries, chipsets, or hardware devices, which has, and can again, result in significant fluctuations in the price of products and components. To mitigate these risks, we have expanded our supplier network and, we have in the past, and may in the future, increase our inventory levels of scarce products and components and adjust our pricing to reflect market conditions. Research and Development Product research, innovation, and product development are an integral part of our business. We continuously evaluate customer needs and new technologies to enable us to develop innovative and relevant products and product enhancements. Research and development expenses were $58.4 million, $48.6 million, and $34.6 million, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Government Segment PARs Government segment provides technical expertise and development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the intelligence community ("IC") and other federal agencies. Additionally, we provide support services for satellite command and control, communication, and information technology ("IT") systems at several DoD facilities worldwide. The Government segment has three principal contract offerings: intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance solutions, mission systems operations and maintenance, and commercial software products for use in analytic and operational environments that leverage geospatial intelligence data. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance ("ISR") PAR's ISR group provides a variety of IC support services, systems integration, situational awareness solutions, and mission readiness support. Our core competencies reside in mobile geospatial applications; counter, small, unmanned aerial systems ("C-sUAS"); and data science offerings. Our substantive, in-depth expertise in these domains enables us to provide government customers and industry partners with key technologies that support a variety of applications ranging from strategic enterprise systems to tactical in-the-field dismounted users. Additionally, we provide integration, testing and operational readiness support in line with these competencies. PAR's ISR group also provides systems engineering support and software-based solutions to the DoD research and development laboratories, intelligence customers, and operational commands. Our internal expertise ranges from theoretical and experimental studies to development and fielding of operational capabilities. Our ISR group members are: experienced developers and subject-matter experts in the DoD full motion video; developers of geospatial and imagery data management, visualization, and exploitation solutions; designers and developers of large-scale data science and multi-media analysis systems; leading the development of technologies to train and test artificial intelligence systems; designers of mobile, tactical situational awareness applications for Android, iOS, and Windows; architects and integrators of advanced C-sUAS systems-of-systems; builders of solutions for privacy, compliance and governance for sensitive customer data; and experienced in the development of live, virtual, constructive training for tactical operations. We are actively engaged in the development of applications that support teams with real-time, tactical edge (mobile) situational awareness and distributed communications needs. PAR's ISR group has a strong legacy in the advanced research, development, and productization of geospatial information assurance technology involving steganography, steganography analysis, digital watermarking, and digital media forensics. These enabling 6 Table of Contents technologies are used to provide increased protection and security of geospatial data and are increasingly applied to the identification of fabricated deep-fake media. PARs ISR group integrates and tests a broad range of government and industry research and development solutions. The group is expanding through the development and implementation of C-sUAS systems in support of force protection efforts. Additionally, we design, integrate, and operate antenna data collection solutions for experimentation, demonstration, and test support. We also provide technical engineering and analysis services to intelligence community customers, supporting development and deployment of advanced prototypes and quick reaction systems, including applications for high performance computing platforms (e.g., Cray exascale computers). Mission Systems ("MS") PAR's MS group provides a wide range of technical and operational services to sustain mission critical components of the DoD's Information Network (DoDIN). These services include continuous satellite and teleport facility operations and maintenance, engineering and installation services including inside and outside plant services, and maintenance of infrastructure and information systems for very low, low, high, and very high frequencies, and ground-based radio transmitter/receiver facilities, including high tower antennas up to 1200 feet. We operate and maintain satellite communications and teleport facilities with ultra-high, super high, and extremely high frequency satellite communication earth terminals, and support telecommunications architectures such as fixed submarine broadcast systems and high frequency global communications systems. The DoD communications earth stations operated by PAR Government are the primary communications systems utilized by the national command authority and military services to exercise command and control of the nations air, land, and naval forces and to provide support to allied coalition forces. PARs MS group supports globally-deployed operational forces by providing reliable 24/7/365 support services for a variety of satellite communication systems. We provide satellite control center operations and mission planning for DoD Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") operations. We provide satellite ground system support, including operations and maintenance, sustainment, upgrades, communications security management, anomaly response/resolution, process improvement, emergency response and disaster recovery. Our experience also includes mission planning and operations training. PARs MS group provides comprehensive, dependable, and secure information systems support services to the DoD and other federal agencies. These services include information technology infrastructure library based, tier 0 to 3 service desk operations for thousands of users, network system administration, database administration, information assurance/system security, information security training, and government network management. We also perform maintenance, monitoring, upgrades, planning, testing, and integration and configuration services, to include security systems including intrusion detection systems. PAR's MS group supports critical information systems which operate elements of the DoDIN to support the National Command Authority (President and Joint Chiefs of Staff), DoD, and other federal agencies. Our system troubleshooting and regulatory experts support the customer mission around the globe. Approximately 70% of our footprint is outside the continental U.S. with contracts in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories in the Pacific and Caribbean. PAR Government has strong and enduring relationships with a diverse set of customers throughout the DoD, IC, and other federal agencies. Our track record of delivering mission critical services to government customers spans decades, and includes contracts continuing 20 years or more, with an average contract duration of three to five years. We work closely with our customers, with many of our MS group employees co-located at customer sites. Our strong relationships and on-site presence with our customers aides our efforts to develop substantive customer and technical domain knowledge, translate mission understanding into exemplary program execution, and create continued demand for PAR Governments services. Commercial Software PAR Governments commercial software business draws on decades of research and development (R&D), image processing and geospatial information systems ("GIS") experience. Licensable software products focus on serving analysts and operators who seek highly accurate and timely information with both temporal and geospatial context. Product utility spans the modern battlefield from rear echelon analyst cell to the field operations 7 Table of Contents center to tactical mobile devices and displays carried by infantryman at the very forward edge of a battlespace. Currently we offer three software products. The geospatial visualization ("GV") image processing suite is used by the international defense and intelligence community to analyze still and video imagery. A second product line, Situation-X (Sit-X), provides cloud-native interconnectivity for mobile platform situational awareness solutions used by government and private organizations to manage rapid response teams or deployed field units. Customers include global geospatial software providers, NATO partners, public safety organizations, and select U.S. intelligence agencies. Third, we offer GVStreamer software which enables real-time routing of video streams from a single camera source to multiple consumption endpoints and includes video management capabilities. Initiated to support livestreaming of unmanned aerial system (UAS) video to multiple end users (beyond a single control station), this capability also enables fixed video camera system relays and routing with minimized time delay for use in tactical applications. Finally, we are a certified reseller of Samsung mobile devices running their tactical edition (TE) operating system. Markets and Competition PAR Government obtains contracts through a mix of competitive proposals and technical paper submissions in response to solicitations from government organizations and prime contractors. In addition, we obtain contracts by submitting unsolicited proposals against publicly identified government requirements which are selected on merit for further development and funding. Although well positioned in our markets, competition for government contracts is intense. Many of our competitors are large corporations that have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. Within our ISR contract portfolio we compete based on the technical talent and accomplishments of our development staff, approach to software development, and program management teams who have earned a reputation for rapid solutioning of leading edge software applications and platforms. We differentiate our ISR offerings based on our demonstrated technical savvy and key staff, who have high security clearances and the background and appetite to tackle truly difficult problems. In our MS contract portfolio, we compete with many smaller, economically disadvantaged companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential, set aside, treatment that target segments of the government contract market. Here the principal competitive factors are past performance, the ability to perform the statement of work, price, technological capabilities, management capabilities, and service. Many of our DoD customers are migrating to price sensitive, best value procurements while leveraging commercial software standards, applications, and solutions. We differentiate our MS offerings based on our strong past performance, having performed exceedingly well for several decades, and competitive pricing strategies. We continue to evolve our commercial software offerings through dedicated investments in two main areas. First, we are further developing video streaming and replication technologies to enable unmanned aerial vehicle operators to manage video outputs from multiple video feeds real time. Second, we are developing capabilities for tactical edge mobile device users to search and retrieve available satellite data from the growing commercial space-based remote sensing markets. Our strategy is to build upon PAR Government segment's sustained performance on existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and to secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the DoD and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly specialized service solutions to the DoD, IC, and other federal agencies. The general technology investment areas by agency, procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for our Government segment. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property. We have U.S. and foreign patents filed and issued to protect our discoveries and inventions, registered and common law trademarks to protect our brand, and copyrights that relate to software and various distinctive characteristics of our products. We also rely on a combination of confidentiality and assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees and consultants, and enter into confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers and other third parties with whom we have strategic relationships. We believe our use and reliance on intellectual property laws and our agreements and licenses 8 Table of Contents protect and maintain our rights in our intellectual property; however, there can be no assurance that our trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights in technologies that are relevant to our business; or that our intellectual property rights will give us a competitive advantage. For a discussion of risks associated with intellectual property, refer to the Risk Factor"Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and materially and adversely harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows" in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors", which is incorporated herein by reference. Government Regulation We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions that involve matters central to the business of our Restaurant/Retail segment, including privacy, data security and personal information, content, data retention and deletion and our Government segment, including the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; as well as U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that impact the operations of our business, including employee matters, import and export controls, trade restrictions, anti-corruption and bribery. A failure, or alleged failure, by us to comply with any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For additional information about government regulation and laws applicable to our business, refer to the risks described under Risks Related to Our Business and Operations" and "Risks Associated with our Government Segment" in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors". Human Capital We prioritize finding, developing and rewarding extraordinary talent. Our employee-first strategy is designed to provide a diverse, inclusive and safe environment where our employees enjoy coming to work each day to support our customers and grow our business. As of December 31, 2023, we had 1,802 full-time employees and 39 part-time employees. We value speed, ownership, focus and winning together, which we consider to be the foundation for how we operate and make decisions. Leadership's Role: Our senior management team is responsible for developing and executing our human capital strategy. We seek employees who share a passion for technology and its ability to improve our customers businesses. Our mission is to create an environment that reflects our values of speed, ownership, focus and winning together where our employees thrive. Our strategy is to seek to hire the best talent, give them the responsibility and authority they deserve, and let them make the decisions on how to best execute. We design our employee compensation and benefits programs to be competitive, reinforce our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), and consistent with our values, to incentivize and reward outstanding performance. Our Chief Executive Officer and Sr. Vice President, Human Resources regularly update the compensation committee of our board of directors on key areas of our human capital strategy, including the following: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Our commitment to DEI is simple: its about community and belonging. We aim to represent the diversity we see in all our customers and their communities. We want to understand and integrate our employees unique perspectives and voices every day. Our employees should feel a sense of belonging and want to be part of the PAR team. We continued to make significant investments in our DEI program in 2023, including setting our first multi-year diversity representation goals, launching our educational Celebrate You speaker series, expanding our employee resource group footprint, and continuing to gather employee feedback via surveys to better understand the diversity and sense of inclusion of our employee population to inform our DEI strategy. To evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our DEI program, we track the ethnic and gender diversity of our U.S. employee population and gender diversity of our global employee population. Our U.S. employee population consists of 27% ethnically diverse employees and 28% women. Globally, our workforce consists of 26% women. Employee Engagement and Talent Management/Development: Consistent with our employee-first strategy, we believe that our employees should have the opportunity to have a forum to communicate their feedback, concerns and suggestions. We conduct semi-annual employee net promoter engagement surveys. Understanding 9 Table of Contents the pulse of our employees through engagement surveys is critical to inform our actions with respect to integrating areas of opportunity in our employee engagement, retention and total rewards programs. Our compensation philosophy aims to attract, retain and incentivize top performers in a highly competitive market for talent, who can deliver competitive financial returns to shareholders through the achievement of short-term and long-term performance targets. To support our meritocratic, pay-for-performance strategy, we execute annual performance and 360 performance reviews with the intent to incentivize and motivate our employees. Talent assessments enable us to identify individuals that are ready for promotion and areas of development across our core competencies. In 2023, we continued to invest in our annual talent roadmap for all employees, including expanding our annual 360 feedback experience to all full-time employees and facilitating an updated talent review of director level and above employees with our executive team to better understand the landscape of our talent globally. In 2024 we will continue to invest in training and development tools and resources such as our career framework and PAR leadership academy for all of our employees. Health and Safety: The health and safety of our employees in the workplace is of utmost importance to us. We regularly assess our facilities to ensure compliance with our health and safety guidelines and regulatory requirements. Talent Acquisition and Attrition: PAR works diligently to attract the best talent from a diverse range of sources to meet the current and future demands of our business. To proactively attract diverse talent, we engage with universities, professional associations, and industry groups, and we leverage PARs robust employee value proposition, which includes our location-flexible philosophy, a collaborative global work environment, and a shared sense of purpose. Our focus on retaining talent is rooted in our employee-first strategy and includes investments in employee engagement, diverse talent sourcing tools, talent management systems, and development. We continue to make appropriate adjustments to ensure competitive compensation, including the implementation of a pay transparency initiative to ensure equity and fairness. Available Information Our website is located athttps://partech.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports and statements filed or furnished by us pursuant to the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website at https://partech.com/investor-relations/as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters and Code of Conduct are also available, free of charge, at https://partech.com/investor-relations/. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including PAR. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price, and could cause our future results to be materially different than we currently anticipate. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part I, Item I, Business, "Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in "Part II,