Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report), the terms PAR Technology Corporation, Company, we, us and our mean PAR Technology Corporation and all subsidiaries included in our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. See also, Forward-Looking Statements below. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical in nature, but rather are predictive of our future operations, financial condition, business strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as anticipate, believe, belief, continue, could, expect, estimate, intend, may, opportunity, plan, should, will, would, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in new product development and/or product introduction; changes in customer base; because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from two customers, a significant fluctuation in our product or service offerings to one or both of these customers; product and service demands and competition; risks associated with the ongoing investigation into possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws, including the cost of such investigation and any sanctions, fines or remedial measures that may be imposed by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); expenses related to remedial measures; risks associated with our identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and any other failure to maintain effective internal controls; and the other risk factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. Overview Our management technology solutions for the Restaurant/Retail segment features cloud and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. Our Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as management technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. Our products sold in the Restaurant/Retail segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by customers worldwide. We face competition across all categories in the Restaurant/Retail segment in which we compete based on product design, innovative features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. Our strategy is to provide complete integrated management technology solutions, supported by industry leading customer service. Our research and development efforts are focused on timely identifying changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, to rapidly and effectively develop innovative new products and enhancements to our existing products that meet and exceed customer requirements. Our strategy is to expand our Restaurant/Retail business by continuing to invest in our existing products - Brink POS and SureCheck - including the development of enhancements to our existing software applications and hardware platforms and the development of new and innovative cloud based software applications. To support the growth of our products, we continue to expand our direct sales force and third-party channel partners. 14 Table of Contents Currently, PARs primary market is the quick serve restaurant category and hardware sales to tier one customers in that category. Consistent with our strategy to expand our product offerings beyond the restaurant/retail markets, we continue to focus on growing and expanding our software offerings, including our cloud software as a service (SaaS) and related hardware and support services. As we implement our strategies, we continuously monitor the trends in the markets within which we currently operate and the markets in which we intend to operate. We know POS hardware is becoming a commodity, as more POS devices (tablets, kiosks and bring your own device) are introduced, competition will continue to increase, driven by pricing, scalability, functionality, and economies of scale, resulting in smaller margins. Our strategy acknowledges this trend, and we intend to grow our recurring revenues from software contracts, specifically SaaS, reducing the impact of this commoditization of POS hardware. The strategy for our PAR Government segment is to build on our sustained outstanding performance of existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for the PAR Government segment. Internal Investigation; Update . As previously disclosed, our Audit Committee has been overseeing an internal investigation by outside counsel into certain import/export and sales documentation activities at our China and Singapore offices, and whether these activities were improper and in violation of the FCPA and other applicable laws, and certain of our policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We voluntarily notified, and we are fully cooperating with, the SEC and the DOJ of these activities. On May 1, 2017, we received a subpoena from the SEC for documents relating to the investigation. The SECs investigation is a non-public, fact-finding inquiry. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we recorded $2.3 million of expenses relating to our internal investigation and the SEC subpoena. It is not clear what action, if any, the SEC intends to take with respect to the information it gathers pursuant to its subpoena. If the SEC, or the DOJ or other governmental agency (including foreign governmental agencies) determine that violations of certain laws or regulations occurred, then we could be exposed to a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions, including injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to our business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to oversee our future compliance. While we cannot currently reasonably estimate the potential liability arising out of the China and Singapore matters or the SEC investigation, the imposition of sanctions, fines or remedial measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 We reported revenues of $48.9 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of 20.4% from the $61.5 million reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. Our net loss from continuing operations was $1.5 million or ($0.10) per diluted share for the third quarter of 2017 versus net income of $0.5 million or $0.03 per diluted share for the same period in 2016. Product revenues were $20.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of 19.6% from the $25.8 million recorded for the same period in 2016. This decrease was primarily driven by a wind down of major project installations for our hardware solutions, with a tier one customer in our Restaurant/Retail segment. 15 Table of Contents Service revenues were $13.3 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 5.5% from the $12.6 million reported for the same period in 2016, primarily due to an increase in installation services driven by an increase in tier one product revenue and continued deployments of our Brink POS software. Contract revenues were $14.9 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, compared to $23.1 million reported for the same period in 2016, a decrease of 35.5%. The decrease reflects the execution of our transition away from high revenue, low margin awards associated with Project Management Office (PMO) contracts to move value-added contracts within the Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) line of business. Product margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 were 23.4%, compared to 28.4% for the same period in 2016. Product margins for the quarter included inventory reserve adjustments of $0.7 million, unfavorably impacting margins by 360 basis points. Service margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 were 24.1%, compared to 28.9% recorded for the same period in 2016. Service margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 included an adjustment to service costs of $0.4 million unfavorably impacting margin by 316 basis points. Contract margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 were 8.8%, compared to 7.0% for the same period in 2016. Our favorable margin rate was primarily driven by a continued shift in revenues from PMO to the higher value added product offerings by our Government segment of ISR and Mission Support. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 were $9.1 million, an increase of 4.4% compared to the $8.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. The increase is primarily due to investment in personnel to support the current and future growth in our Brink & SureCheck products. SG&A expenses for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 included $0.7 million related to the investigation of conduct at our China and Singapore offices Research and development (R&D) expenses were $2.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of 6.9% from $2.9 million for the same period in 2016. During each of the quarters ended September 30, 2017 and September 30, 2016, we recorded $0.2 million of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the 2014 acquisition of Brink Software Inc. Other expense, net, was $70,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, compared to other expense, net of $38,000 for the same period in 2016. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. Interest expense, net, was interest expense of $39,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 compared to $12,000 for quarter ended September 30, 2016. The Company's effective tax rate benefit for the third quarter was impacted by a reduction in the forecasted effective tax rate for the year due to losses in the quarter, resulting in a reversal in the third quarter of the excess rate recorded through the second quarter. Additionally, the Company recorded a discrete benefit in its tax provision for the third quarter associated with stock based compensation. 16 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 We reported total revenues of $177.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 4.5% from the $169.5 million reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Net income from continuing operations was $1.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 versus $0.6 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the same nine-month period in 2016. Product revenues were $90.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 30.8% from the $69.3 million recorded for the same nine-month period in 2016. This increase was driven by high volume of sales to our tier one customers in our domestic operations and new accounts won through deployments of Brink POS and related hardware. The increase was offset by lower sales volume by our channel partners selling our Pixel Point product. Service revenues were $42.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 18.2% from the $36.1 million reported for the same nine-month period in 2016. This increase is primarily due to an increase in installation services driven by an increase in tier one product revenue, continued deployment of our Brink POS, and an increase in our depot repair services. Contract revenues were $43.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $64.0 million reported for the same nine-month period in 2016, a decrease of 31.6%. The decrease reflects the execution of our transition away from high revenue, low margin awards associated with PMO contracts to move value-added contracts within the Government segments ISR line of business. Product margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 were 25.1%, compared to 26.4 % for the same nine-month period in 2016. Service margins were 30.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 28.6% for the same nine-month period in 2016. This increase was primarily driven by favorable fixed cost absorption on increased volume and continued revenue shifting to our SaaS offering. Contract margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 were 10.3%, compared to 7.9% for the same nine-month period in 2016. This increase was primarily driven by a shift in revenue from PMO to higher volume added product offerings of ISR and Mission Support in our Government segment. In addition, on a year to date basis, Mission Support and PMO showed improved margins in comparison to the prior year due to revenue mix within those respective product lines. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $27.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 18.5%, compared to the $23.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. This increase is due to costs driven by investments in sales & marketing and corporate support including information technology, finance and management. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $9.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 13.1% compared to the $8.4 million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to our increased investment in software development costs for products associated with our Brink POS and SureCheck software applications in the Restaurant/Retail segment. For each of the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded $724,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software Inc. Other expense, net, was $264,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and $318,000 for the same period in 2016. Other expense/income primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. Interest (expense) income, net, was interest expense of $84,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared to interest income of $20,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The 2016 interest income represents interest recorded on the note receivable related to the sale of PSMS assets in November 2015, offset by interest charged on our short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. The Companys effective tax rate for the nine months (year-to-date) was 15.9% due to a discrete tax benefit associated with stock based compensation. 17 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was $7.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to cash used in operating activities from continuing operations of $2.4 million for the same period in 2016. This increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily driven by third quarter hardware deployed during 2017 associated with customer deposits received in the fourth quarter of 2016 from one of our tier one accounts and a reduction in accounts payable. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 cash used in operations was mostly due to changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in inventory procurement and offset by an increase in accounts payable. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $7.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 versus $4.7 million used in investing activities from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, our capital expenditures of $3.9 million were primarily related to the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system and capital improvements made to our owned and leased properties. We capitalized $3.3 million in costs associated with investments in our Restaurant/Retail segment software platforms. In the nine months ended September 30, 2016, our capital expenditures of $1.8 million were primarily related to our enterprise resource planning system, capital improvements to leased properties, as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with our software support service offerings. We capitalized $1.9 million in costs associated with investments in our Restaurant/Retail segment software platforms. Additionally, the Company made an agreed upon working capital payment of $1.0 million in regard to the sale of the hotel/spa technology business unit. Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $6.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 versus cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations of $2.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. This change was a result of borrowings on our line of credit under our Credit Facility, proceeds from stock options, and receipt of $4.2 million related to the 2015 sale of hotel/spa technology business. See Note 2 - Divestiture and Discontinued Operations - of our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. On November 29, 2016, we, together with certain of our U.S. subsidiaries entered into a three-year credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan Chase). The Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million, with availability thereunder equal to the lesser of (i) $15.0 million and (ii) a borrowing base (equal to the sum of 80% eligible accounts, 50% eligible raw materials inventory and 35% eligible finished goods inventory, with no more than 50% of total eligible inventory included in the borrowing base), less the aggregate principal amount outstanding (the Credit Facility). Interest accrues on outstanding principal balances at an applicable rate per annum determined, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, by reference to the CBFR Spread or the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio as at the determination date. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur or permit to exist liens on assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, consolidate or merge, pay dividends and make distributions, and financial covenants, requiring that the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio not exceed 3.0 to 1.0 and, a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 for each fiscal quarter. In August 2017, we entered into an Omnibus Amendment Number 1 to Loan Documents with JPMorgan Chase to provide the Company with more flexibility in its use of its assets and a waiver of any default relating to the location of certain collateral. We were in compliance with the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2017. On September 30, 2017, there was $1.5 million outstanding and up to $13.5 million available under the Credit Agreement. 18 Table of Contents In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $0.4 million and $0.6 million as of September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This loan matures on November 1, 2019. Interest is fixed at 4.00% through maturity. The annual loan payment, including interest through November 1, 2019, is $0.2 million. We expect our operating cash flows and available capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the next 12 months. Our actual cash needs will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, including growth of our SaaS revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, market acceptance of our products, and potential fines and penalties that, while currently inestimable, could be material (see Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 for further discussion about the potential adverse effect of such fines and penalties on our business). If we are required or otherwise elect to seek additional funding, we cannot be certain that such additional funding will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. We believe our use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis. Primary areas where financial information is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Our critical accounting policies have not changed materially from the discussion of those policies included under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the full retrospective or modified retrospective transition method. The Company expects to adopt the standard under the modified retrospective transition method, which may result in an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect, if any, of applying the standard to active contracts as of the adoption date. As this method does not result in recast of the prior year financial statements, ASC 606 requires the Company to provide additional disclosures during the year of adoption for the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected by adoption of the new standard and explanation of the reasons for significant changes. 19 Table of Contents In 2017, the Company has prioritized the evaluation of the impact of the new standard on its revenue contracts, including consideration of the application of the new standards five-step model on the Companys current revenue contracts, evaluating the new enhanced disclosure requirements and the data required to prepare such disclosures, and identifying appropriate changes to business processes, information technology systems, and internal controls, where necessary, to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new guidance. We have been evaluating the impact of applying the new standards five-step model on our Restaurant/Retail and Government revenue contracts, including identifying the distinct performance obligations within such arrangements and evaluating the best-estimate of selling prices and the timing of recognizing revenue for such performance obligations. We continue to evaluate the potential quantitative impacts of adoption of the standard to the cumulative adjustment to be recorded on January 1, 2018, as well as to our continuing operations in 2018; however, we currently do not believe there will be effects that significantly alter the timing of revenue recognition. We believe the most significant impacts of adoption of the new standard will be the expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures required. The Company has made progress in its assessment of the impact of the new revenue recognition standard; however, efforts to quantify the impact upon adoption remain ongoing. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 impacting the accounting for leases intending to increase transparency and comparability of organizations by requiring balance sheet presentation of leased assets and increased financial statement disclosure of leasing arrangements. The revised standard will require entities to recognize a liability for its lease obligations and a corresponding asset representing the right to use the underlying asset over the lease term. Lease obligations are to be measured at the present value of lease payments and accounted for using the effective interest method. The accounting for the leased asset will differ slightly depending on whether the agreement is deemed to be a financing or operating lease. For finance leases, the leased asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis and recorded separately from the interest expense in the income statement resulting in higher expense in the earlier part of the lease term. For operating leases, the depreciation and interest expense components are combined, recognized evenly over the term of the lease, and presented as a reduction to operating income. The ASU requires that assets and liabilities be presented or disclosed separately and classified appropriately as current and noncurrent. The ASU further requires additional disclosure of certain qualitative and quantitative information related to lease agreements. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01 clarifying the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The amendments in this update affect all reporting entities that must determine whether they have acquired or sold a business. This guidance clarifies that to be a business there must also be at least one substantive process, and narrows the definition of outputs by more closely aligning it with how outputs are described in the new revenue recognition standard. The amendments in this update should be applied prospectively on or after the annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The adoption of this standards update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04 intended to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill. The amendments in this Update modify the concept of impairment from the condition that exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value to the condition that exists when the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if that reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Because these amendments eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, they should reduce the cost and complexity of evaluating goodwill for impairment. The standards update is effective on a prospective basis for annual and interim goodwill impairment testing performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The adoption of this standards update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 20 Table of Contents In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. This update requires modification only if the fair value, vesting conditions or the classification of the award changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standards update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-09 to simplify several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions standard, including the classification of excess tax benefits and deficiencies and the accounting for employee forfeitures. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2017 2017 at which time we adopted this new standard. The updates to the accounting standard include the following: Excess tax benefits and deficiencies no longer are recognized as a change in additional paid-in-capital in the equity section of the balance sheet, instead they are recognized in the income statement as a tax expense or benefit. In the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits and deficiencies are no longer classified as a financing activity, instead they are classified as an operating activity. Entities have the option to continue to reduce share-based compensation expense during the vesting period of outstanding awards for estimated future employee forfeitures or they may elect to recognize the impact of forfeitures as they actually occur. The Company will continue to reduce the share based compensation expense during the vesting period of outstanding rewards for estimated future forfeitures. The ASU also provides new guidance to other areas of the standard including minimum statutory tax withholding rules and the calculation of diluted common shares outstanding. The adoption of this provision will be reflected prospectively in the financial statements and did not have a material impact. The adoption of the new standard in the first quarter of 2017 did not have a significant impact on our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the balance sheet classification of deferred taxes. This standard requires an entity to classify all deferred tax assets, along with any valuation allowance, as noncurrent on the balance sheet. As a result, each jurisdiction will have one net noncurrent deferred tax asset or liability. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2017, which resulted in the Companys reclassification of deferred tax assets from current assets to non-current assets in the amount of $7.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory. This standard changes the inventory valuation method from the lower of cost or market to the lower of cost or net realizable value for inventory valued under the first-in, first-out or average cost methods. The implementation of the amended accounting guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents