Item 2 : Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "will," or "expect," we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot provide assurances that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview During the quarter ending September 30, 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS) to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operation and Cash Flow in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. Additionally, the assets and associated liabilities have been classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale and Note 11 Subsequent Events in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. The Company's Government segment provides technical expertise to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and other federal agencies serving Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) needs in geospatial intelligence, geographic information systems, and command and control applications; additionally, this segment provides mission critical telecommunications, satellite command and control, and information technology operations and maintenance services worldwide to the U.S. DoD. The Company's products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. [14] Table of Contents The Company is focused on expanding its Hospitality businesses through its product investments and continued development of its cloud based software applications. These products include its Brink POS software, with integrated features that include loyalty, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting and mobile dashboard. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications and the development of the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. However, the Company has seen certain market conditions impact smaller specific QSR organizations, whose business is slowing due to the continued lack of consumer confidence in specific regions. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The Company continues to assess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to win contract renewals, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies with highly-specialized expertise, systems integration, and products. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 During the quarter ending September 30, 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PSMS to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operation and Cash Flow in accordance with ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. Additionally, the assets and associated liabilities have been classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale and Note 11 Subsequent Events in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. [15] Table of Contents PAR reported revenues of $58.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 10.3% from the $52.6 million reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2014. PAR reported net income from continuing operations of $1.3 million or $0.08 per diluted share for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 versus $0.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the same period in 2014. During the quarter, the Company reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $2.8 million or $0.18 loss per share versus a loss of $0.8 million or $0.05 loss per share for the same period in 2014. Product revenues were $24.4 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 13.6% from the $21.5 million recorded in 2014. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from the Companys international locations in support of PARs global tier one accounts. In addition, new accounts established by the Company contributed to the revenue increase as compared to prior year. Service revenues were $11.6 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 5.5% from the $11.0 million reported for the same period in 2014. The increase is the result of the Company diversifying its revenue with a higher recurring revenue base, specifically software sold as a service. Contract revenues were $22.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, compared to $20.1 million reported for the same period in 2014, an increase of 9.5%. This increase is driven by increased activity within the Companys Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance contracts. Product margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 were 28.6%, a decrease from 34.5% for the same period in 2014. During the quarter, negatively impacting the overall product margins were a high volume of lower margin peripheral devices sold to our largest Hospitality customers and a larger deployment of software for a specific rollout in 2014 that did not recur in 2015. Service margins were 28.5% for the quarter ended September 30, 2015; an increase from the 21.8% recorded for the same period in 2014. The increase is a result of favorable service revenue mix during the quarter. The primary driver is the continued growth of revenue streams within the Companys software platforms sold as a service. In addition, the Company experienced a high volume of its time and material revenue within PARs repair center. Contract margins were 7.5% for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, compared to 6.7% for the same period in 2014. This variance is the result of a favorable contract mix with a higher volume of revenue earned through higher margin contracts. [16] Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses were $7.0 million for the period ending September 30, 2015, compared to $7.6 million for the period ending September 30, 2014. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower equity based compensation expense and the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its Hospitality operations. The Company continues to monitor its cost structure, including strategic initiatives to reduce its fixed costs. Partially offsetting the decrease was severance related expense. Research and development expenses were $2.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, compared to $2.2 million recorded for the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily related to increased software development costs for products within the Hospitality segment, including R&D associated with the Companys Brink POS software application. Other income, net was $128,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 compared to other expense, net of $65,000 for the same period in 2014. Other income/expense primarily includes finance charges, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, foreign currency fair value adjustments, and other non-operating income. The increase primarily relates to finance charges and non-operating income received during the quarter. During the quarter ended September 30, 2015, the Company recorded $248,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software that was acquired on September 18, 2014. The Company recorded $31,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets for the quarter ended September 30, 2014. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $81,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 as compared to $21,000 for the same period in 2014. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, the Company's effective income tax rate was 34.1%, compared to 47.9% for the same period in 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2015 compared to 2014 is due to the increase in the projected tax in the Companys domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2015. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 During the quarter ending September 30, 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PSMS to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operation and Cash Flow in accordance with ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. Additionally, the assets and associated liabilities have been classified as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale and Note 11 Subsequent Events in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. [17] Table of Contents PAR reported revenues of $172.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 8.6% from the $158.6 million reported for the same period in 2014. PAR reported net income from continuing operations of $2.7 million or $.18 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus $1.1 million or $0.07 per diluted share for the same period in 2014. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, PAR reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $4.5 million or $.29 loss per share versus a net loss of $2.7 million or $.18 loss per share for the same period in 2014. Product revenues were $70.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 13.6% from the $61.7 million recorded in 2014. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from the Companys international locations in support of PARs tier one accounts in addition to higher product revenues in growing the customer base. Service revenues were $34.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase from the $33.5 million reported for the same period in 2014. The increase is due to sales of the Companys software sold as a service which is a growing source of recurring revenue. Additionally, the Company experienced an increase of volume of its hardware repair center. Contract revenues were $67.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of 6.4% compared to $63.4 million reported for the same period in 2014. This increase is driven by increased activity within the Companys Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance contracts. Product margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were 28.5%, a decreased from 31.0% for the same period in 2014. Product margin was impacted by a higher volume of revenue from our lower margin hardware offerings. Service margins were 28.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase from the 22.9% recorded for the same period in 2014. Service margins have been favorably impacted by an increase in software related services during the period, including professional services and software sold as a service revenues, generated by sales of our hospitality technology software platforms. Contract margins were 6.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 6.3% for the same period in 2014. This variance is the result of a favorable contract mix with a higher volume of revenue earned through higher margin contracts. [18] Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were $21.0 million, a decrease compared to $22.5 million recorded for the same period in 2014. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower equity based compensation expense and the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its Hospitality operations. The Company continues to monitor its cost structure, including strategic initiatives to reduce its fixed costs. Research and development expenses were $7.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase from the $6.3 million recorded for the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily due to the R&D assumed with the Companys acquisition of Brink Software Inc. and continued development of the Brink POS software application. Additionally, the Company had an increase in hardware R&D associated with next generation hardware products. Other expense, net was $58,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to other income, net of $225,000 for the same period in 2014. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The decrease primarily relates to lower rental income and impact of foreign currencies. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company recorded $746,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software. The Company record $31,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $252,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to $63,000 for the same period in 2014. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company's effective income tax rate was 35.0%, compared to 46.7% for the same period in 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2015 compared to 2014 is due to the increase in the projected tax in the Companys domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations was $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations of $4.7 million for the same period in 2014. [19] Table of Contents In 2015, cash provided by continuing operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges offset by changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with decreases in accounts payable based on timing of payments made to vendors. In 2014, cash generated from continuing operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in deferred revenue based on timing of billings for the Companys service contracts offset by increases in inventory due to timing of customer deployments. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $6.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus $7.4 million for the same period in 2014. In 2015, the purchase of Brink Software Inc. accounted for approximately $3.0 million of the investing capital. Additionally, capital expenditures of $1.5 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $1.5 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2014, the purchase of Brink Software Inc. accounted for approximately $5.0 million of the investing capital. Additionally, capital expenditures of $1.2 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $1.2 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 versus $5.9 million generated from financing activities from continuing operations in 2014. In 2015, the Company decreased borrowings on its credit facility by $1.6 million and its long-term debt by $129,000. In 2014, the Company increased borrowings on its credit facility by $6.0 million, mostly in connection with the purchase of Brink Software Inc., decreased its long-term debt by $129,000 and received $13,000 from stock awards. Through September 4, 2014, the Company maintained a credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit (with the option to increase to $30.0 million), which expired in September 2014. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. This credit facility was secured by certain assets of the Company. On September 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its then existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of the facility through September 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior facility. This facility provided the Company with capital of up to $20.0 million (with the option to increase to $30.0 million) in the form of a revolving line of credit. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. [20] Table of Contents On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. The terms of the new agreement provide for up to $25 million of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.25% at September 30, 2015) plus applicable interest rate spread up to 0.25% or, at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.5% 2.0%). At September 30, 2015, the Company had an outstanding balance of approximately $3.4 million on this line of credit at a rate of 3.50%. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 3.50% during fiscal year 2015. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. On March 19, 2015, the Company amended its existing credit facility to reduce the EBITDA requirement and extend the fixed charge coverage ratio. The amendment provides the Company flexibility to continue investing in the Companys future product offerings while maintaining certain covenant thresholds as defined in the amendment. The Company is in compliance with the credit facility covenants as of September 30, 2015. In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate was currently 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014, the fixed rate was converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. Effective November 1, 2014, the Company entered into an agreement that fixed the interest rate at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual mortgage payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $206,000. In connection with the acquisition of Brink Software on September 18, 2014, the Company recorded indebtedness to the former owners of Brink under the stock purchase agreement. At September 30, 2015, the principal balance of the note payable was $2.0 million and it had a carrying value of $1.9 million. The initial carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of acquisition with the difference being accreted to interest expense. The note payable of $2.0 million is payable on the second anniversary of close, September 18, 2016. During fiscal year 2015, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $2.0 million to $4.0 million. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major Hospitality customers, McDonald's and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Company's liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Company's future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company's sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in management's opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. [21] Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company considers the applicability and impact of all accounting standard updates (ASUs). ASUs not listed below were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or are expected to have minimal impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In July 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory. This standard changes the inventory valuation method from the lower of cost or market to the lower of cost or net realizable value for inventory valued under the first-in, first-out or average cost methods. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2017, and requires prospective adoption with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs, which amends existing guidance to require the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with debt discounts, instead of a deferred charge asset. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for the fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement, which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as an acquisition of a software license. If not considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as a service contract. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. [22] Table of Contents In August 2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to disclosures around going concern, including management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures when conditions or events raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2017, with early adoption permitted. The impact of adopting this guidance on January 1, 2017 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended guidance on the accounting for certain share-based employee compensation awards. The amended guidance requires that share-based employee compensation awards with terms of a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award and compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved. The Company is required to adopt this guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2016. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. In July 2015, the FASB affirmed its proposal of a one-year deferral of the effective date of the new revenue standard. As a result , the new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2018. The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. PAR is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on PAR's financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies In PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company disclosed accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of the Companys critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. [23] Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.