Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report), the terms PAR, Company, we, us and our mean PAR Technology Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. See also, Forward-Looking Statements below. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical in nature, but rather are predictive of our future operations, financial condition, business strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as anticipate, believe, belief, continue, could, expect, estimate, intend, may, opportunity, plan, should, will, would, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in new product development and/or product introduction; changes in customer base and product, and service demands, including changes in product or service demands by the two customers from whom a significant portion of our revenue is derived; risks associated with the internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices, including sanctions and fines that may be imposed by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and other governmental authorities; and the other risk factors discussed in this Quarterly Report in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. Overview Our Restaurant/Retail segment provides point-of-sale (POS), food safety, and restaurant management technology solutions; and, our Government segment provides intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance solutions and mission systems support. Restaurant/Retail Segment We are a leading provider of POS solutions to restaurants and retail outlets. Our solutions and services include cloud-based and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. Our product and service offerings include: Brink POS, a leading cloud-based enterprise software solution for restaurants, primarily in the quick serve/fast casual categories. As a cloud POS platform, Brink POS scales for use by single and multi-unit operators with traditional and/or mobile platforms; it eliminates the requirement for an in-store back-office server and simplifies software version control and organizational updates. Brink POS provides specific modules and integrates with mobile/online ordering, loyalty, kitchen video systems, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, and mobile dashboard capabilities. Brink POS is sold as a cloud software-as-a-service, SaaS. PixelPoint, an on-premise integrated software solution that includes a POS software application, a self-service ordering function, back-office management, and an enterprise level loyalty and gift card information sharing application. The PixelPoint solution is primarily sold to independent table service and quick serve restaurants through channel partners. PixelPoint is also international and can be sold in international restaurant markets. 19 Table of Contents Our POS hardware platforms are purpose design, purpose built for use in a variety of restaurant environments. Our software and hardware platforms deliver a complete, integrated solution for multi-unit and individual restaurants, franchisees, and enterprise customers in the three major restaurant categories: fast casual, quick serve, and table service. Each of these restaurant categories has distinct operating characteristics and service delivery requirements that are managed by Brink POS and PixelPoint. Both Brink POS and PixelPoint allow customers to configure their technology systems to meet their order entry, food preparation, inventory, and workforce management needs, while capturing real-time transaction data at each location and delivering valuable business intelligence throughout the enterprise. Our SureCheck solution offers big box, food retail (grocery), C-store and contract food customers with a comprehensive digital food safety and automated task management solution to manage Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points, to implement Chef Critical Control Points compliance, and to augment facility maintenance. SureCheck provides retail operators a tool to effectively capture and monitor data to manage policy compliance and oversight, loss prevention, merchandising, and other audit functions. The SureCheck platform is comprised of three integrated technologies that are easy to use and quick to deploy: the SureCheck mobile application, a multi-mode wireless temperature-measuring device with optional remote temperatures sensors, and a cloud-based enterprise configuration and reporting server application. We face competition across all categories in the Restaurant/Retail segment in which we compete based on product design, innovative features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. The food safety and workforce efficiency market is an expanding and evolving market, and SureCheck competes for customers on the same basis as our POS product solutions. We believe the financial performance of the Restaurant/Retail segment and its future success are primarily dependent upon the growth of our Brink line of business (Brink), including Brink POS and other cloud-based software, related hardware, installation and technical support, and other customer services. Our ability to capitalize on the digital revolution disrupting the restaurant space by leveraging our cloud-based technologies and integrated solutions depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to access capital, including under our Credit Agreement (see Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion below), other sources of debt financings, or the sale of equity securities; and the timing and size of our investments and expenditures in areas that will drive growth, including: product development, consisting primarily of expenses in software engineering, product development and related personnel costs; sales and marketing, consisting primarily of advertising, marketing, general promotional expenditures, and sales and marketing personnel costs; customer support, consisting primarily of help-desk and related personnel costs; and general and administrative, including IT infrastructure expenditures. Our Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as management technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. The strategy for our Government segment is to build on our sustained superior performance on existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for the Government segment. Internal Investigation Update As previously disclosed, in the third quarter of 2016, our Audit Committee commenced an internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices to determine whether certain import/export and sales documentation activities were improper and in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other applicable laws and certain of our policies. We voluntarily notified, and are fully cooperating with, the SEC and the DOJ of the internal investigation. On May 1, 2017, we received a subpoena from the SEC for documents relating to the internal investigation. The SECs investigation is a non-public, fact-finding inquiry. Following the conclusion of the Audit Committees internal investigation, we voluntarily reported the relevant findings to the China and Singapore authorities and are fully cooperating. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , we recorded $0.3 million and $0.9 million , respectively, of expenses relating to the internal investigation and the SEC subpoena, including expenses of outside legal counsel and forensic accountants compared to $0.7 million and $2.3 million , respectively, for 20 Table of Contents the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 . See note 10 to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning expenses of the internal investigation. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 We reported revenues of $46.4 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , a decrease of 5.3% from $48.9 million reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 . Our net loss from continuing operations was $16.7 million or $1.04 loss per diluted share for the third quarter of 2018 versus net loss of $1.5 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the same period in 2017 . Our year-over-year performance was due to lower Restaurant / Retail hardware revenue and corresponding hardware support service revenue from our traditional tier 1 customers in addition to increased research and development investments in Brink. We were able to offset these reductions with growth in Brink SaaS revenue, continued growth in the Government segment, as well as reductions in general and administrative costs. Additionally, we recorded a one-time valuation allowance of $14.9 million to reduce the carrying value of our deferred tax assets. Product revenues were $15.5 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , a decrease of 25.4% from $20.7 million reported for the same period in 2017 . Our hardware sales in the Restaurant/Retail segment were down versus prior year due to unfavorable domestic and international sales with our traditional tier 1 customers. Hardware sales related to Brink were $2.5 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, an increase of 21% from the $2.0 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Service revenues were $13.5 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of 1.2% from $13.3 million reported for the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a 61% increase in SaaS and service support revenue related to Brink offset by a decrease in hardware support services. The increase in Brink related revenue was driven by an increase in the installment base of 87% from September 30, 2017 to September 30, 2018 . Contract revenues were $17.4 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of 16.9% from $14.9 million reported for the same period in 2017 . The increase reflects growth associated with both Mission Systems (MS) and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) lines of business. The Government segment experienced the fourth quarter in a row of positive year-over-year growth. Product margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were 21.9% , compared to 23.4% for the same period in 2017 . The decrease in product margin is primarily due to increases in reserves for SureCheck product inventory. Service margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were 23.9% , compared to 23.1% recorded for the same period in 2017 . Service margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased mainly due to increased contribution from SaaS revenue. Contract margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were 11.0% , compared to 8.8% for the same period in 2017 . The increase in margin is primarily due to an increase in ISR product sales. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were $8.0 million , a decrease of 12.0% compared to the $9.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 . We were able to reduce total SG&A costs while increasing sales and marketing for Brink by $0.6M. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $3.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of 18.3% from $2.5 million for the same period in 2017 . The increase is attributable to an increase of $1.0 million in Brink research and development expenses. During each of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 , we recorded $0.2 million of amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible assets acquired in the Brink Acquisition. Other income, net, was $455,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 , compared to other expense, net of $70,000 for the same period in 2017 . Other income in the quarter reflects a valuation adjustment for a contingent liability (see note 12 to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements). 21 Table of Contents Interest expense, net, was $142,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 compared to $39,000 for quarter ended September 30, 2017 . This increase is due to increased borrowings on the line of credit under our Credit Facility as well as increases in underlying reference rates. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 , our effective income tax rate was (611.1)% , compared to 43.9% for the same period in 2017 . The change in our effective income tax rate is primarily due to the lower statutory federal income tax rate under the Tax Act as well as a favorable increase to permanent differences in taxable income, offset by the impact of the establishment of a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 We reported revenues of $154.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , a decrease of 12.7% from $177.1 million reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Our net loss from continuing operations was $18.0 million or $1.12 loss per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 versus net income of $1.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share for the same period in 2017 . Our year-over-year unfavorable performance was due to lower Restaurant / Retail hardware revenue and corresponding hardware support service revenue from our traditional tier 1 customers. We were able to offset these reductions with continued growth in the Government segment, reductions in general and administrative costs and growth in Brink revenue, including related SaaS, hardware and support services. Additionally, we recorded a one-time valuation allowance of $14.9 million to reduce the carrying value of our deferred tax assets. Product revenues were $62.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , a decrease of 30.8% from $90.6 million recorded for the same period in 2017 . Our hardware sales in the Restaurant/Retail reporting segment were down versus prior year as we lapped major hardware project installations with a large domestic customer in both the first and second quarters of 2017 in addition to lower international revenue in the Restaurant/Retail reporting segment versus prior year. Service revenues were $40.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , a decrease of 4.9% from $42.7 million reported for the same period in 2017 , primarily due to a decrease in hardware support services and hardware installations with our traditional customers, partially offset by a $2.6 million increase in Brink SaaS revenue. Contract revenues were $51.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of 17.2% from $43.8 million reported for the same period in 2017 . The increase reflects a 23% growth in ISR and 13% growth in MS year-over-year. Product margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were 25.2% , compared to 25.1% for the same period in 2017 . Product margins for the nine months ended were consistent compared to the prior year with favorable product mix offset by pricing pressure on hardware. Service margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were 26.1% , compared to 27.1% recorded for the same period in 2017 . Service margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased due to increased investments in the Company's call center to support growth in Brink installment base and unfavorable overhead absorption related to a decline in hardware support services, partially offset by favorable product mix driven by growth in SaaS revenue. Contract margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were 10.4% , compared to 10.3% for the same period in 2017 . Improved ISR margins offset a reduction in MS margins year-over-year. SG&A expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $25.6 million , a decrease of 7.2% compared to the $27.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease is primarily due to a reduction in costs associated with the internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices, and cost savings in domestic and international operations partially offset by additional investments in sales to support the growth of Brink. SG&A expenses associated with the internal investigation for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.9 million as compared to $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Research and development expenses were $9.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , an increase of 11.3% from $8.2 million for the same period in 2017 . This increase is primarily attributable to an increase of $1.4 million in Brink research and development expenses. During each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 , we recorded $0.7 million of amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible assets acquired in the Brink Acquisition. 22 Table of Contents Other income, net, was $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to other expense, net of $0.3 million for the same period in 2017 . Other income/expense primarily includes fair market value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan, valuation adjustments for a contingent liability (see note 12 to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements), rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. Interest expense, net, was $261,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $84,000 for nine months ended September 30, 2017 due to increased borrowings on the line of credit under our Credit Facility and increases in the underlying reference rates. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , our effective income tax rate was (374.0)% , compared to 15.9% for the same period in 2017 . The change in our effective income tax rate is primarily due to the lower statutory federal income tax rate under the Tax Act, offset by lower favorable temporary differences resulting from stock compensation and the impact of the establishment of a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility. Cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was $2.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to cash used in operating activities from continuing operations of $7.8 million for the same period in 2017 . This decrease in cash used in operating activities was primarily driven by a decrease in net working capital requirements partially offset by a decrease in year-over-year operating income. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 versus $7.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , our capital expenditures of $3.0 million were primarily related to the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system and capital improvements made to our owned and leased properties compared to $3.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . We capitalized $3.1 million in costs associated with investments in our Restaurant/Retail segment software platforms during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $3.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The capital expenditures and capitalized software costs were offset by proceeds from a pending real estate transaction of $1.1 million . Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $6.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , reflecting $6.0 million of net borrowings under our line of credit and $0.7 million of proceeds from exercised employee stock options offset by payments of $0.1 million on a real estate loan. Cash provided by financing activities were in line with the $6.8 million provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . On June 5, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and Citizens Bank, N.A. The Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility includes a $15.0 million accordion option, which we can request in $5.0 million increments. The accordion increase is uncommitted and is not available if an event of default exists. In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement, we repaid in full all outstanding obligations owed under the credit agreement dated November 29, 2016 (as subsequently amended, modified, and supplemented) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan Chase), and terminated the JPMorgan Chase credit agreement and all commitments (other than an undrawn letter of credit) by JPMorgan Chase to extend further credit thereunder. The Credit Facility matures three (3) years from the date of the Credit Agreement and is guaranteed by our U.S. subsidiaries that are parties thereto. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and the subsidiary guarantors. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants, including certain financial maintenance covenants consisting of maximum consolidated leverage ratios and minimum consolidated EBITDA, and covenants that restrict our ability and our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur or permit to exist liens on assets, make investments and acquisitions, consolidate or merge, engage in asset sales, pay dividends, and make distributions. The revolving loans bear interest at the LIBOR rate plus 1.5%. Obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon certain customary events of default (subject to grace or cure periods, as appropriate). On September 30, 2018 , the applicable rate under the Credit Facility was 1.5% plus LIBOR. There was a $7.0 million outstanding balance and up to $18.0 million available under the Credit Facility as of September 30, 2018 . In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has a loan, collateralized by a mortgage on certain real estate, with a balance of $0.2 million and $0.4 million as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. This loan matures on November 1, 2019. The 23 Table of Contents interest rate is fixed at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual loan payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $0.2 million . On October 1, 2018, the Company finalized a sale of the real estate held as collateral and the remaining balance on the loan was paid in full. The Company continues to increase its investment of resources required to fund the growth of Brink. The investments in areas such as research and development, sales and marketing, customer support (help desk), and IT infrastructure have outpaced cash provided from other operating activities. As a result, the Company has experienced operating losses four of the last five quarters and this trend is expected to continue as we execute the Brink strategy. Based on our current estimates we anticipate that we will not meet the financial maintenance covenant requirements under our Credit Agreement for the fourth quarter of 2018. In the event of non-compliance and if we are unable to secure waivers or modifications to our Credit Agreement or timely receipt of alternative sources of capital to allow us to come into compliance with the covenants or allow us to repay or refinance the Credit Agreement, an event of default may occur under the Credit Agreement (see Item 1A. Risk Factors). In such a case, we may no longer have access to the liquidity provided by the Credit Agreement and, as a result, we might not have sufficient liquidity to make the anticipated investments in Brink and satisfy operating expenses, capital expenditures and other cash needs. We are evaluating alternative sources of capital, including modifications to our Credit Agreement, debt financings and/or future sales of our equity securities, and the equity value of our real estate holdings. Brink related revenue growth and revenue growth in our Government business, controlled and/or reduced expenditures, obtaining the necessary waivers or modifications to our Credit Agreement, and/or securing alternative sources of capital are necessary for the Company to fully execute the Brink strategy; if we are not successful, we may need to reduce and/or delay the timing of our investments in Brink. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. We believe our use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis. Primary areas where financial information is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, equity compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Our critical accounting policies have not changed materially from the discussion of those policies included under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 except as it relates to revenue recognition as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 as disclosed in note 2 to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" , impacting the accounting for leases intending to increase transparency and comparability of organizations by requiring balance sheet presentation of leased assets and increased financial statement disclosure of leasing arrangements. The revised standard will require entities to recognize a liability for its lease obligations and a corresponding asset representing the right to use the underlying asset over the lease term. Lease obligations are to be measured at the present value of lease payments and accounted for using the effective interest method. The accounting for the leased asset will differ slightly depending on whether the agreement is deemed to be a financing or operating lease. For finance leases, the leased asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis and recorded separately from the interest expense in the income statement resulting in higher expense in the earlier part of the lease term. For operating leases, the depreciation and interest expense components are combined, recognized evenly over the term of the lease, and presented as a reduction to operating income. The ASU requires that assets and liabilities be presented or disclosed separately and classified appropriately as current and noncurrent. The ASU further requires additional disclosure of certain qualitative and quantitative information related to lease agreements. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2019. In July 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that provided for a new optional transition method that allows entities to initially apply the new leases standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings. Under this approach, comparative periods are not restated. The Company expects to adopt this guidance when effective using the optional transition method. Adoption will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, primarily to the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures, as a result of recognizing right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from its operating leases. We are reviewing contracts with our lessors of offices, vehicles and other equipment to determine whether 24 Table of Contents these agreements contain any potential embedded leases. Although our assessment is not complete, we currently expect the adoption of this guidance to result in the addition of significant balances of leased assets and corresponding lease liabilities to our consolidated balance sheets, primarily related to our lease of office space and vehicles. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, " Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ." ASU 2016-13 requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date, based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. In addition, ASU 2016-13 amends the accounting for credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities and purchased financial assets with credit deterioration. The amendment is effective for the Company beginning with its fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, however early application is permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company does not anticipate ASU 2016-13 will have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test which required entities to compute the implied fair value of goodwill. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting units fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2020, with earlier adoption permitted; it is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement . ASU 2018-13 modifies the fair value measurements disclosures with the primary focus to improve effectiveness of disclosures in the notes to the financial statements that is most important to the users. The new guidance modifies the required disclosures related to the valuation techniques and inputs used, uncertainty in measurement, and changes in measurements applied. ASU 2018-13 is effective for the Company beginning with and including its fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and each quarterly period thereafter. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new guidance may have on the Companys consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract . ASU 2018-15 provides guidance on the measurement of costs for internal-use software during the design, development and implementation stages for customers in a cloud based hosting arrangement. AU 2018-15 also requires the capitalized costs associated with the design, development and implementation of cloud based, hosted arrangements to be amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement. ASU 2018-15 will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2020, with earlier adoption permitted; it is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" , codified as ASC Topic 606. The FASB issued amendments to ASC Topic 606 during 2016. The guidance requires additional disclosure regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and related cash flows arising from contracts with customers. This guidance became effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and allows for either full retrospective adoption or modified retrospective adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Under that method, we applied the standard to all contracts existing as of January 1, 2018. There was no impact to the Companys retained earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC 606. The Company assessed its control framework as a result of adopting the new standard and notes minimal changes to its systems and other control processes. In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-15, " Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. " ASU 2016-15 is intended to reduce diversity in practice in how eight particular transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 became effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities are required to apply the guidance retrospectively; however, if it 25 Table of Contents is impracticable to apply the guidance retrospectively for an issue, the amendments related to that issue are applied prospectively. As this guidance only affects the classification within the statement of cash flows, ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements. In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Scope of Modification Accounting. ASU 2017-09 clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications. Under ASU 2017-09, an entity does not apply modification accounting to a share-based payment award if all of the following are the same immediately before and after the change: (i) the award's fair value, (ii) the award's vesting conditions and (iii) the award's classification as an equity or liability instrument. ASU 2017-09 became effective for us on January 1, 2018 and did not have a material impact on the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 .