Item 2 : Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. The Company's government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. The Company's products sold in the hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 17 Table of Contents The Company is focused on expanding its hospitality businesses through its product investments and continued development of its cloud based software applications. These products include its Brink POS software within the fast casual market, with integrated features that include loyalty, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, mobile dashboard, and much more. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications and the development of the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. The Quick Serve Restaurant market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. PAR primarily sells its hardware platforms to this market, specifically, within our Tier 1 clients. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently win renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. Update on Internal Investigation During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company identified certain unauthorized wire transfers involving Company funds that were in contravention of the Companys policies and procedures. The unauthorized investments occurred during the period between September 25, 2015 and November 6, 2015. These funds, collectively, total $776,000. The employment of Michael S. Bartusek, the Companys Vice President and Chief Financial Officer was terminated effective March 14, 2016 for cause in connection with these unauthorized investments made in contravention of the Companys policies and procedures. Mr. Bartusek had been hired by the Company into those positions effective July 20, 2015. This matter was reported by management to the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors, comprised solely of independent directors. Under the direction of the Independent Audit Committee, an investigation was commenced and completed, although the Company continues to pursue recovery of the funds. The investigation was led by outside counsel, and they engaged an independent forensic consultant to assist in the matter. As directed by the Audit Committee, the Company has reported this matter to federal law enforcement agencies, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We are presently unable to predict whether the SEC or other law enforcement agency will commence their own investigation or determine whether there have been violations of federal laws and regulations. We have not to date determined whether any of the activities in question violated any applicable laws. However, if any federal authorities were to ultimately determine that the Company violated any laws or regulations, the Company may be exposed to a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to business practices including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to oversee future compliance by the Company. These investigations and any potential proceedings resulting therefrom could be costly and burdensome to our management, and could adversely impact our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Even if an inquiry or investigation does not result in any adverse determinations, it potentially could create negative publicity and give rise to third-party litigation or other action. 18 Table of Contents Upon evaluation of the circumstances under which such unauthorized investments were made, the Company determined that internal control weaknesses existed that permitted these wire transfers to be initiated, processed and completed without obtaining the necessary approvals. In particular, we have identified that our pre-hiring diligence procedures failed to require the completion of a satisfactory background investigation, which should have included credit and other public record and media checks for accounting and financial hires to the extent permitted by applicable law. In addition, our procedures relating to treasury transactions did not require sufficient sign-off documentation and review thereof with respect to approvals required prior to initiating treasury transactions, and as a result, documentation describing the transaction, confirming its execution and evidencing the required approvals did not exist or was significantly deficient, thus impeding prevention or early detection of the improper actions. While we determined that no material adjustment was required to our previously reported consolidated financial statements, we determined that the aggregation of these internal control deficiencies, combined with the influence and span of control of our former Chief Financial Officer, while such influence and control was limited, resulted in a material weakness in the Companys internal control environment. To assist in the remediation of the material weakness, the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer engaged an outside consulting firm to perform a review of its internal controls over financial reporting. The Company will implement the recommendations from the consulting firm during 2016 and anticipates making changes to such controls to strengthen its overall system of internal control. The Company is committed to strengthening its internal control environment and believes that these remediation efforts will represent significant improvements in our controls. While the Company has started to implement the internal control recommendations made by the consultant, the internal control improvements will take time to be fully integrated and confirmed to be effective and sustainable. Additional controls may also be required over time. Until the remediation steps set forth above are fully implemented and tested, the material weakness described above will continue to exist. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 During the quarter ending September 30, 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS) to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. This transaction closed on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operation and Cash Flows in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. Additionally, the assets and associated liabilities have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 2 Divestiture and Discontinued Operations in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. 19 Table of Contents PAR reported revenues of $55.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, an increase of 0.2% from the $55.2 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. The Company's net income from continuing operations was $15,000 or $0.00 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2016 versus $192,000 or $0.01 per diluted share for the same period in 2015. During the quarter the Company had no income from discontinued operations versus a net loss from discontinued operations of $577,000 or $0.04 loss per diluted share for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Product revenues were $22.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, an increase of 6.5% from the $20.7 million recorded for the same period in 2015. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from PARs tier one accounts and new accounts established through the acquisition of Brink. Service revenues were $11.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, an increase of 10.0% from the $10.6 million reported for the same period in 2015. During the quarter, the Company experienced an increase in installation services driven mostly by the increase in product revenue. Additionally, the Company continued to grow recurring revenue from software related services, primarily revenue streams generated from software sold as a service through deployments of Brink POS, software maintenance from Pixel and hosting revenue generated from an international deployment of SureCheck. In addition, service revenue generated by the Companys hardware repair center has increased compared to prior year, driven by a higher volume of contracts. Contract revenues were $21.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $23.8 million reported for the same period in 2015, a decrease of 9.7%. This decrease is a result of a decrease in materials and subcontract revenue across all lines of business offset by an increase in direct labor and associated value-added revenue. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 were 25.5%, a decrease from 29.1% for the same period in 2015. During the quarter, the Company experienced an unfavorable product mix in sales of our hardware offerings, with a high volume of lower margin peripheral devices sold. Service margins were 26.5% for the quarter ended March 31, 2016; an increase from the 24.5% recorded for the same period in 2015. Service margins were favorable during the quarter due to an increase in software related services during the period, primarily driven by higher software sold as a service revenue. Contract margins were 8.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to 5.7% for the same period in 2015. This variance is the result of a favorable contract close-out and higher margin on increased value-added revenue. 20 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $7.5 million for the period ending March 31, 2016, an increase of 13.2%, compared to the $6.7 million for the period ending March 31, 2015. The increase is primarily due to investigation costs related to certain unauthorized transfers of Company funds that were made in contravention of the Companys policies and procedures, costs incurred related to the initial phase of the planned implementation of a new enterprise resource system in connection with the business transformation project and continued strategic focus in building the Companys recurring revenue base. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $2.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, up from the $2.4 million recorded for the same period in 2015. This increase was primarily due to an increase in software development costs for products within the hospitality segment, primarily R&D associated with the Companys Brink and SureCheck software applications. During the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company recorded $241,000 and $249,000, respectively, of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software. Other expense, net, was $70,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to $206,000 for the same period in 2015. Other expense/income primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The decreased expense in 2016 is primarily due to foreign currency adjustments and lower rental income. Interest income (expense), net represents interest recorded on the note receivable related to the sale of PSMS of $67,000 offset by interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt of $38,000. Interest expense was $86,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. This decrease in interest expense is associated with lower outstanding borrowing in 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company's effective income tax expense was 34.8%, compared to 47.1% for the same period in 2015. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2016 and 2015 were due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2016 and 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash used in operating activities of continuing operations was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $0.4 million for the same period in 2015. In 2016, cash used in operations was mostly due to changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in accounts receivable based on timing of product sales and contract billings partially offset by increases in accrued expenses and accounts payable from timing of payments made to vendors, specifically inventory purchases. In 2015, cash used in operations was mostly due to the changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in customer deposits and deferred revenue based on timing of billings for the Companys service contracts offset by decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable from timing of payments made to vendors, specifically inventory purchases. 21 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 versus $0.7 million for the same period in 2015. In 2016, capital expenditures of $322,000 were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $659,000 and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2015, capital expenditures of $278,000 were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $410,000 and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $7,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 versus cash used of $3.8 million in 2015. In 2016, the Company decreased borrowings on its long-term debt by $44,000 and recognized a tax benefit of equity based compensation of $37,000. In 2015, the Company decreased borrowing on its credit facility by $3.8 million and its long-term debt by $43,000. Through June 4, 2014, the Company maintained a credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit (with the option to increase to $30.0 million), which expired in June 2014. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. This credit facility was secured by certain assets of the Company. On June 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its then existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of the facility through June 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior facility. This facility provided the Company with capital of up to $20.0 million (with the option to increase to $30.0 million) in the form of a revolving line of credit. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A (the Credit Facility). The terms of the Credit Facility provide for up to $25 million of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.50% at March 31, 2016 ), plus an applicable interest rate spread (range of 0.0% - 0.25%), or at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate, plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.5 % 2.0%). At March 31, 2016, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 3. 75 % during fiscal year 2016. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. 22 Table of Contents On March 19, 2015, the Company amended the Credit Facility to reduce the EBITDA requirement and extend the fixed charge coverage ratio. The amendment provides the Company flexibility to continue investing in the Companys future product offerings while maintaining certain covenant thresholds as defined in the amendment. On March 16, 2016, the Company received a notice of defaults under its current Credit Facility due to unauthorized investments made during 2015 by the companys former Chief Financial Officer, which were not permitted investments as defined in the lending agreement. These unauthorized investments involved cash transfers totaling $776,000, which amounts have been written off by the Company as of December 31, 2015 (the Unauthorized Transactions). On March 24, 2016 the lender provided waivers of the defaults, subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the waiver, including entry by the Company into a fourth amendment to the Companys Credit Agreement. On March 24, 2016, based on the waiver received, the Company executed the fourth amendment to its existing Credit Agreement. Under the terms and conditions of this amendment, the Company has engaged an independent consultant to review its internal controls relating to financial reporting and authorization procedures for financial transactions (including, without limitation, investments) initiated by the Companys officers (the Internal Control Review). The company has agreed to deliver to the lender a report prepared by Companys consultant that sets forth, in reasonable detail, the results of the Internal Control Review, together with a summary of any recommended changes to the Companys internal control procedures (the ICR Report). To the extent the ICR Report sets forth recommended changes to Borrowers internal control procedures (IC Recommendations), The Company has agreed to promptly take steps to implement the IC Recommendations in all material respects. The Company has agreed to provide periodic updates to the lender relating to the Internal Control Review, implementation of IC Recommendations and any ongoing investigations related to the Unauthorized Transactions . In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $702,000 and $746,000 at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate was 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014, the fixed rate was converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. Effective November 1, 2014, the Company entered into an agreement that fixed the interest rate at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual mortgage payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $206,000. 23 Table of Contents In connection with the acquisition of Brink Software Inc. on September 18, 2014, the Company recorded indebtedness to the former owners of Brink Software Inc. under the stock purchase agreement. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the principal balance of the note payable was $2.0 million and it had a carrying value of $1.9 million. The carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of acquisition. The note does not bear interest and repayment terms are $3.0 million, which was paid on the first anniversary of close, September 18, 2015, and $2.0 million payable on the second anniversary of close, September 18, 2016. During fiscal year 2016, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3.0 million to $5.0 million. The Company does not routinely enter into long term contracts with its major hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, supports the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In March 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard simplifies several aspects related to the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, statutory tax withholding requirements, forfeitures and classification on the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to leases. This standard requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities arising from a lease for both financing and operating leases, along with additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The new standard is effective for the Company for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. 24 Table of Contents In November 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the balance sheet classification of deferred taxes. This standard requires an entity to classify all deferred tax assets, along with any valuation allowance, as noncurrent on the balance sheet. As a result, each jurisdiction will have one net noncurrent deferred tax asset or liability. The new standard is effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The adoption of this standard, which may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively, is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory. This standard changes the inventory valuation method from the lower of cost or market to the lower of cost or net realizable value for inventory valued under the first-in, first-out or average cost methods. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2017, and requires prospective adoption with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to disclosures around going concern, including management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures when conditions or events raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2017, with early adoption permitted. The impact of adopting this guidance on January 1, 2017 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. In July 2015, the FASB affirmed its proposal of a one-year deferral of the effective date of the new revenue standard. As a result, the new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2018. The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. PAR is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on PAR's financial statements. 25 Table of Contents Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In September 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance on the accounting for certain share-based employee compensation awards. The amended guidance requires that share-based employee compensation awards with terms of a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award and compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved. The Company is required to adopt this guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2016. The adoption of this amendment did not have any significant impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for the fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement, which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as an acquisition of a software license. If not considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as a service contract. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2016 did not have any significant impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs, which amends existing guidance to require the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with debt discounts, instead of a deferred charge asset. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2016 did not have any significant impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies In PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company disclosed accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of the Companys critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 26 Table of Contents