Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. PART I Item 1: Business . General. PAR Technology Corporation, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries - ParTech, Inc. and PAR Government Systems Corporation - operates in two distinct reporting segments, Restaurant/Retail and Government. Our Restaurant/Retail segment provides point-of-sale (POS), food safety, and management technology solutions; and, our Government segment provides intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions and mission systems support. Information about our segment revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets (including certain information by geographic areas) is set forth in Note 11 - Segment and Related Information - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report). In this Annual Report, the terms PAR, the Company, we, us, and our refer to PAR Technology Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. PAR, Brink POS, SureCheck, Pixelpoint, PAR EverServ and other trademarks of PARs appearing in this Annual Report belong to PAR. This Annual Report contains trade names and trademarks of other companies. Our use of such other companies trade names or trademarks is not intended to imply any endorsement or sponsorship by these companies of PAR or its products or services. Restaurant/Retail Segment: Overview. We derived approximately 74% of our total consolidated revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment in 2017. PAR continues to be a leading provider of POS solutions to restaurants and retail and, primarily through our Brink POS cloud-based software solution, we continue to expand our restaurant base and type of customers (tier 1, 2 and 3). Our food safety and workforce efficiency solution - SureCheck - has expanded our customer base to include big box retailers, food retail (grocery), and contract food organizations. We provide our customers with management technology solutions that address their desire to offer seamless transactional experiences or product offerings to their customers, while enabling them to gather and use content management and business intelligence to complete transactions or monitor product quality and safety. Our management technology solutions include our cloud-based and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services. Our software offerings include front-of-store POS software applications, operations management software applications (known as back-office software), and enterprise software applications for content management and business intelligence. Our hardware offerings include POS terminals, tablets, kitchen systems utilizing printers and/or video monitors, and food safety monitoring and task management hardware. 2 Table of Contents Products and Services . The products and services in the Restaurant/Retail segment include: Cloud-based SaaS offerings and On-Premise Software : Brink POS (Brink) - a cloud-based POS software solution that scales for use by single and multi-unit operators with traditional and/or mobile platforms. Brink is a leading solution for restaurants, particularly in the quick serve/fast casual restaurant categories. A cloud POS platform, Brink eliminates the need for an in-store back-office server and simplifies software version control and organizational updates. Brink provides and integrates into mobile/online ordering, loyalty, kitchen video systems, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, and mobile dashboards. Brink is sold as a cloud software-as-a-Service (SaaS). PixelPoint - an on-premise integrated software solution, that includes a POS software application, a self-service ordering function, back-office management, and an enterprise level loyalty and gift card information sharing application. The PixelPoint solution is primarily sold to independent table service and quick serve restaurants through channel partners. SureCheck -a mobile automated solution that provides checklist management for Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points (HACCP), food safety programs, and employee-assigned tasks. The SureCheck platform is comprised of three integrated technologies that are easy to use and quick to deploy: the SureCheck mobile application, a multi-mode wireless temperature-measuring device (TMD) with optional remote temperatures sensors, and a cloud-based enterprise configuration and reporting server application. The Restaurant Market. Our software applications and hardware platforms are designed to be complete and integrated solutions for multi-unit and individual restaurants, franchisees, and enterprise customers in the three major restaurant categories: fast casual (FC), quick serve (QSR), and table service (TSR). Each of these restaurant categories has distinct operating characteristics and service delivery requirements that are managed by Brink and PixelPoint. Both Brink and PixelPoint allow customers to configure their technology systems to meet their order entry, food preparation, inventory, and workforce management needs, while capturing real-time transaction data at each location and delivering valuable business intelligence throughout the enterprise. The Retail Market. The SureCheck solution offers food retail (grocery), contract food, and restaurant customers with a comprehensive digital food safety and task management solution to manage HACCP, to implement Chef Critical Control Points (CCCP) compliance, and to augment facilities maintenance. The SureCheck solution automates the monitoring of risk factors while lowering the potential for human error; it records employee food preparation, handling, processes and tasks, while providing insight to abnormal checklist conditions, and offers an automated alert feature to notify users when tasks are behind schedule or out of compliance. SureCheck offers retail operators a device to effectively capture and monitor data to manage policy compliance and oversight, loss prevention, merchandising, and other audit functions. Hardware . PAR EverServ POS platforms are designed to reliably operate in harsh environments associated with food service. PAR EverServ platforms are durable and highly functioning, scalable, and easily integrated - offering customers competitive performance at a cost-conscious price. PARs hardware platforms are compatible with popular third-party operating systems, support a distributed processing environment and are suitable for a broad range of use and functions within the markets served. PARs open architecture POS platforms are optimized to host our POS software applications, as well as many third-party POS applications, and are compatible with a variety of peripheral devices. We partner with numerous vendors that offer complementary in-store peripherals, such as cash drawers, card readers, and printers to kitchen video systems, allowing us to deliver a completely integrated solution through one vendor. Our POS hardware platforms are designed to meet customer requirements and exceed customer expectations regardless of the restaurant concept, the size of the organization or the complexity of use. PARs hardware platform offerings are primarily comprised of three POS product lines: PAR EverServ 550 Series, PAR EverServ 8000 Series, and PAR EverServ tablets. EverServ 550 Series - is built with the rugged durability PAR is known for and is a value platform for operators that require fewer features/functions. Its small ergonomic footprint is ideal for installations where space is at a premium. The EverServ 550s solid design is quiet, offers low power consumption, and minimizes maintenance. EverServ 8000 Series - is designed and developed based on the latest technology processors from Intel Corporation. The EverServ 8000 boasts a modern design and, while it is one of the smallest footprints available in the market, it is built to operate in harsh environments and endure high customer traffic and transaction activities. EverServ tablets - PAR Tablet 8 and PAR Tablet 10 - are the latest in PARs series of enterprise-class mobile devices built for our customers. Consistent with our EverServ family, the EverServ tablets are designed to operate 3 Table of Contents in harsh environments. Attributable to the Everserv tablets extended battery life, the rugged design of the EverServ tablets does not impact the level of up time enjoyed by customers, but it does extend the EverServ tablets life cycle. Our EverServ mobility family of hardware platforms also include a variety of docking and charging stations, the ability to use magnetic credit and debit cards and payment systems, hand and shoulder straps and holsters to support the variety of product applications. Services. We provide a complete portfolio of services to support our customers technology requirements during and after software and/or hardware deployments. We offer complete application training to our customers in-store staff and provide technical training to our customers information systems personnel. We provide installation, technical and break-fix support for our products through support services, license and/or subscription agreements with our customers. We also offer depot repair and overnight - Advanced Exchange - service. In North America, we offer 24-hour help desk support from our diagnostic service center located in Boulder, Colorado, and on- site support through our field tech service network, which services the continental United States. Outside of the continental U.S., we similarly support our products by providing call center, installation, on-site, and/or depot repair services to our customers depending upon a customer's geographic location. These services are delivered to our customers directly by us and by authorized third parties. The restaurant market is fragmented and we support businesses of all sizes, from large corporations and their franchisees to single store operators. We believe our ability to offer comprehensive services including training, installation, maintenance, and technical support to a diverse set of customers differentiates us from our competitors. Using a suite of software applications, our experienced service organization provides customers with knowledge based diagnostic solutions to resolve customer service issues. Our service providers compile information about potential customer or product trends and opportunities, and provide this information to our remote service technicians, to assist them in diagnosing - in real-time - issues occurring at customer locations, reducing the need for physical on-site service calls. Our customer relationship management system allows our call center personnel to maintain customer profiles, including customer hardware and software details, service history, and database of problem-resolutions, to maximize our service resolution effectiveness and customer satisfaction. We work closely with our customers to identify and address the latest restaurant or retail technology requirements by creating interfaces to the latest innovations in operational equipment, including Europay, MasterCard and Visa (EMV), digital, and additional solutions located inside and outside of customer premises. PAR provides systems integration expertise to interface specialized components, including but not limited to video monitors, wireless networks, and video surveillance, to meet requirements of its global customers. Sales, Marketing and Distribution In the U.S., we market and sell our products through our dedicated sales teams, who directly interface with our tier 1 customers (owner and/or operator of 2,000 or more sites), tier 2 customers (owner and/or operator of 101-1,999 sites) and tier 3 customers (owner and/or operator of a 2 - 100 sites). Our international sales teams also market and sell our products and services to tier 1 customers outside of the U.S., as well as local/regional customers, from in-country offices. We also use channel partners to market and sell our products and services both in the U.S. and internationally. Our products are also offered and sold through sales representatives, who enlist and support many well-regarded value-added resellers serving multi-unit operators, the independent restaurant category, and the non-foodservice markets such as retail, convenience, amusement parks, movie theaters, cruise lines, spas and other ticketing and entertainment venues. PAR has developed and nurtured long-term relationships with several of the largest organizations in the Restaurant/Retail segment, including McDonalds Corporation, Yum! Brands, Inc., and the SUBWAY franchisees of Doctors Associates Inc. Since 1980, PAR has been an approved provider to McDonalds and its franchisees of restaurant technology systems and support services. PAR has been an approved supplier of Yum! Brands, which includes Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, and Pizza Hut, since 1983 and is a major supplier of in-store technology systems to concepts within the Yum! Brands portfolio. Other significant restaurant chains that use PAR POS products and related services include SUBWAY, Baskin-Robbins unit of Dunkin Brands Group, Inc., the Hardees and Carls Jr. units of CKE Restaurants, Inc., Five Guys, Jack-in-the-Box, and franchisees of these organizations. The SureCheck solution is used by one of the largest tier 1 global retailers. 4 Table of Contents Competition POS software and hardware offerings to the restaurant and retail markets is highly competitive. Most of our significant customers have several approved suppliers of software and/or hardware similar to one or more of our products. We compete directly with some product offerings from Oracle Corporation, NCR Corporation, and Panasonic Corporation among others. We compete on the basis of product delivery (cloud-based v. traditional on-premises software applications), existing and planned product design, features and functionality, software application and integration capabilities, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price, and customer service. Our competitive advantages include our integrated solutions offerings, including our cloud (SaaS delivery model) and on-premise software, ergonomic purpose-built hardware, advanced development capabilities, extensive domain knowledge and expertise, excellent product reliability, a customer dedicated direct sales force organization, and world class and responsive customer service and support. The food safety and workforce efficiency market is an expanding and evolving market. As relevant technologies evolve and customer demands and expectations increase and mature, so do the competitive pressures in the market, with new companies entering and existing companies expanding their product and service portfolios. SureCheck competes for customers on the same basis as our POS solution. As to many of our product and service offerings, we face competition from companies who have access to significantly more financial and technical resources than we possess. Research and Development Continuous product research, innovation, and product development are an integral part of our business. We continuously evaluate customer needs, and new and relevant technologies, to enable us to develop innovative products together with enhancements to our existing products that improve and/or add to their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities; from leveraging the latest innovations in cloud computing to hand-held wireless devices to advances in internet performance, our professional services unit is available for consultation on a wide variety of topics including network infrastructures, system functionality, operating system platforms, and hardware expandability. Research and development expenses were $13.8 million in 2017 and $11.6 million in 2016. We capitalize certain software costs in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic No. 985 and in accordance with FASB ASC Topic No. 350. See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Identifiable intangible assets - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report) for further discussion. Manufacturing and Suppliers We assemble our ES 8000 series internally in the U.S., and we source other hardware products and related components from third parties. Although we purchase most of the materials, supplies, product sub-assemblies and full assemblies for our internal assembling from several suppliers, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our assembly components and hardware products. As a result, we periodically review and evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations in the event one or more supplier should fail to perform. Government Segment: PARs Government segment provides a range of solutions and services for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and federal agencies. It is focused on two principal offerings - Solutions and Services and Mission Support. Solutions and Services Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR). We provide a variety of geospatial intelligence and situational awareness solutions for mobile and data center offerings. Our substantive, in depth expertise in these domains enables us to provide our government customers and large systems integrators with key technologies to support a variety of applications ranging from strategic enterprise systems to tactical in the field dismounted users. Additionally, we have developed a number of solutions relative to these advanced technologies and we provide integration and training support with respect to these solutions. ISR provides systems engineering support and software-based solutions to DoD research and development laboratories as well as operational commands. Our internal expertise ranges from theoretical and experimental studies to development and fielding of operational capabilities. Our employees are: experienced developers and subject-matter experts in DoD Full Motion Video (FMV); developers of geospatial and imagery data management, visualization, and exploitation solutions; major contributors to radar systems from inception to operational capabilities; developers of mobile computing applications for Android, iOS, and Windows; and developers of geospatial information system (GIS) solutions. 5 Table of Contents We are actively engaged in the development of mobility applications that support the needs of mobile teams with real-time situation awareness and distributed communications. ISR has a strong legacy in the advanced research, development and productization of geospatial information assurance (GIA) technology involving steganography, steg analysis, digital watermarking, and image forensics. These enabling technologies have been used to provide increased protection and security of geospatial data. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance also provides scientific and technical support to the U.S. Intelligence Community. Systems Engineering & Evaluation. We integrate and test a broad range of government and industry research and development solutions. The Company designs, integrates and operates antenna data collection solutions for experimentation, demonstration, and test support. We also provide technical engineering and analysis services to intelligence community customers, supporting development and deployment of advanced prototypes and quick reaction systems. Mission Support Satellite & Telecommunications Support. We provide a wide range of technical and support services to sustain mission critical components of the Department of Defense Information Network (DoDIN). These services include continuous 24/7/365 operations, system enhancements and associated maintenance of very low frequency (VLF), high frequency (HF) and very high frequency (VHF) ground-based radio transmitter/receiver facilities. Additionally, the Company operates and maintains several extremely high frequency (EHF) and super high frequency (SHF) satellite communication earth terminals and teleport facilities. The DoD communications earth stations operated by PAR is the primary communications infrastructure utilized by the national command authority and military services to exercise command and control of the nations air, land and naval forces and provide support to allied coalition forces. Space & Satellite Control Support. We provide 24/7/365 satellite telemetry, tracking, and control services in support of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) operations. Our experience includes mission planning, launch and early orbit (L&EO) rehearsals and support, COOP exercises and operations, ground systems sustainment, and watch and on-console operations for anomaly response, notification, resolution and process improvement for FLTSAT, UHF Follow-On, Polar EHF, and MUOS satellite constellations. Management technology/Systems Support. We provide management technology services to the DoD and federal agencies. These services include helpdesk services, systems administration, network administration, information assurance and systems security, database administration, telephone systems management, testing and testbed management, and ITIL-based service management. Telecommunication services include satellite and terrestrial communications operations and maintenance services, which operate elements of the DoDIN to support the National Command Authority (President & Joint Chiefs of Staff), DoD and other government agencies. The Company provides IT support services ranging from advanced systems management to help desk support-with more than 50% of its global footprint outside the continental U.S. with contracts in Europe, Africa, Australia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories in the Pacific and Caribbean. PAR has strong and enduring relationships with a diverse set of customers throughout the U.S. DoD and federal government, and our track record of delivering mission critical services to its government customers spans decades, and includes contracts continuing 15 years or more. We work closely with our customers, with the vast majority of our mission system employees co- located at customer sites. Our strong relationships and on-site presence with our customers enable PAR to develop substantive customer and technical domain knowledge, and translate mission understanding into exemplary program execution and continued demand for PARs services. Marketing and Competition We obtain contracts primarily through competitive proposals in response to solicitations from government organizations and prime contractors. In addition, PAR sometimes obtains contracts by submitting unsolicited proposals. Although we believe we are well positioned in our business areas, competition for government contracts is intense. Many of our competitors are major corporations, or subsidiaries thereof, that are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial resources. We also compete with many smaller, economically disadvantaged companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential set aside treatment, that target segments of the government contract market. The principal competitive factors are past performance, the ability to perform the statement of work, price, technological capabilities, management capabilities and service. Many of our department of defense customers are migrating to low-price/technically acceptable procurements while leveraging commercial software standards, applications, and solutions. 6 Table of Contents Backlog The value of existing Government contracts at December 31, 2017, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $111.1 million, of which $38.2 million was funded. The value of existing Government contracts at December 31, 2016, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $126.0 million, of which $36.4 million was funded. Funded amounts represent those amounts committed under contract by Government agencies and prime contractors. The December 31, 2017 Government contract backlog of $111.1 million represents firm, existing contracts. Of this backlog amount, approximately $55.8 million is expected to be completed in calendar year 2018, as funding is committed. Intellectual Property and Other Rights We develop a substantial amount of our products internally as original developments, discoveries and know-how or based on existing copyrighted works and/or patents issued or pending of PAR or third-party licensors. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents and patents pending and trademarks, as well as copyrights that relate to internally developed software, various distinctive characteristics of our products, including certain attributes, functionality, and brand association and goodwill. In addition to our publicly available intellectual property, we possess competitive confidential information and trade secrets. We protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information by actively pursuing U.S. and foreign patent and trademark protection of our proprietary product developments, discoveries and know-how and our brands and logos, and by entering into license agreements and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements. Employees As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 1,137 full-time employees, including approximately 54% in our Restaurant/Retail segment, 39% in our Government segment (27% of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements), and 7% who are corporate employees. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our website at www.partech.com About Us - Investors, SEC Filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A Risk Factors . Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Our yearly results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to the timing of our revenue recognition and our ability to accurately forecast sales, including subscription software sales and renewals. Our revenues and other results of operations have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the foreseeable future as our Restaurant/Retail segment continues its transformation from a hardware and systems integrator to a software driven solutions provider, including offering and delivering our software as a service SaaS. As revenues from our cloud offerings increase, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our SaaS offerings and our traditional on-premises software and hardware sales. The SaaS delivery model is subscription based; accordingly, SaaS revenues are generally recognized ratably over the life of the subscriptions. In contrast, revenue from our on-premises software and hardware sales is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery. Accordingly, the SaaS delivery model creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition not associated with our traditional on-premises delivery model. A portion of our quarterly SaaS based revenue results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our SaaS business model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Our products might experience coding or configuration errors, which could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from purchasing our products . 7 Table of Contents Although we test our products and updates prior to their release and throughout their intended life, our cloud- based and on-premises software and hardware products sometimes contain coding or configuration errors that can negatively impact their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities. Coding and configuration errors can expose us to product liability, performance, warranty claims, and harm our reputation. We are subject to cyber-attacks; we are subject to laws and regulations governing the protection of personally identifiable information, a cyber attack or a failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business. We collect, process, transmit, and store (on our operating systems and those of third-party providers) customer transactional data and their customers and employees' personally identifiable information or other data. Our operating systems, and those of our third-party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks, including using computer viruses, credential harvesting, dedicated denial of services attacks, malware, social engineering and other means for obtaining unauthorized access to or disrupting the operation of our systems and those of our third-party providers. Any failure or interruption of our operating systems or those of our third-party providers could result in operational disruptions or misappropriation of information, including interruption of systems availability or denial of access to and misuse of applications or information required by our customers to conduct their business. Any operational disruptions or misappropriation of information could harm our relationship with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy, accuracy and security of personally identifiable information and personal data that is collected, processed, stored, maintained and transmitted in or from certain governing jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or changes in these laws and regulations, may be onerous and expensive and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or personal data could damage our reputation, discourage potential customers from using our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, any one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our technical and maintenance support services are not satisfactory to our customers, they may not renew their services agreements or buy future products, which could adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our business relies on our customers satisfaction with the technical and maintenance support services we provide to support our products. If we fail to provide technical and maintenance support services that are responsive, satisfy our customers expectations and resolve issues that they encounter with our products, then they may not purchase additional products or services from us in the future. If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Much of our future success depends on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management. Experienced personnel in the management technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense in the skill-set we require. Moreover, we believe that a critical contributor to our success is our corporate culture and values. We must successfully attract and retain qualified business, technical, product development and other employees that contribute to our business. Our failure to do so, could adversely affect our ability to innovate, to rapidly and effectively change and introduce new products, and to provide timely and effective installation, technical and maintenance support services, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The price of our common stock may be negatively impacted by factors that are unrelated to our actual operating performance . A number of factors can impact the trading price of our common stock, many of which are outside our control. Trading in our stock does not generally occur in high volumes and the market for our stock cannot always be characterized as active. Thin trading in our stock may exaggerate fluctuations in the stocks value, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. In addition, the stock market in general is subject to fluctuations that affect the share prices and trading volumes of many companies, and these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could affect our common stock price in the future include but are not necessarily limited to the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; the performance and prospects of our major customers; 8 Table of Contents fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock; the concentrated beneficial ownership of our common stock by our founder and director, Dr. John W. Sammon; actual or anticipated regulatory action against us; the lack of earnings guidance and securities analysts following us; investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate; uncertainty regarding domestic and international political conditions, including tax policies; and uncertainty regarding the prospects of domestic and foreign economies. Two customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one of these customers, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of purchases by one of these customers, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment constituted 74% and 65% of our total consolidated revenues for 2017 and 2016 , respectively; and, aggregate sales to our two largest customers, which include sales to these two customers respective franchisees - McDonalds Corporation and Yum! Brands, Inc., which consists of the Kentucky Fried Chicken, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut brands constituted 33% (McDonalds) and 14% (Yum!) and 25% (McDonalds) and 11% (Yum!) of total consolidated revenues for 2017 and 2016, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total consolidated revenues during these years. A loss of McDonalds or Yum! Brands as a customer, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders by one of these customers would reduce our revenue and operating income and would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We face extensive competition in our markets, and our failure to compete effectively could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services. The markets for our POS software, SureCheck and hardware products are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, evolving industry standards, emerging business, distribution and support models, disruptive technology developments, and frequent new product introductions. While we think our POS software, SureCheck and hardware products offer competitive, innovative features and functionality, any one of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect sales to our existing customers, as well as our ability to attract and sell to new customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies and to rapidly and effectively respond and improve our products, including changes in operating systems, application software and computer and communications hardware, with which our products interoperate or their performance and functionality are otherwise affected. If we fail to anticipate and/or identify changes in customer needs and/or emerging relevant technological trends, our business, results of operations and financial conditions could suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, marketing, or launch of new products or enhancements to our existing products could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. Our government contracting business has been focused on niche offerings, reflecting our expertise, primarily in the areas of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, systems engineering & evaluation, satellite and telecommunications services and management technology/systems services. Many of our competitors in the Government segment are larger and have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. We also compete with smaller companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential set aside treatment, that target particular segments of the government market and may have superior capabilities in a particular segment. These companies may be better positioned to obtain contracts through competitive proposals. Consequently, there are no assurances we will continue to win government contracts as a prime contractor or subcontractor, and our failure to do so, would reduce our revenue and operating income and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The consequence of our internal investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. In the third quarter of 2016, our Audit Committee commenced an internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices to determine whether certain import/export and sales documentation activities were improper and in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other applicable laws, and certain of our policies. We voluntarily notified the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, of the internal investigation. If the SEC, DOJ, or other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies) determine that violations of certain laws or regulations occurred, then we could be exposed to a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions, including injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to our business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and 9 Table of Contents the retention of a monitor to oversee our future compliance. While we are currently unable to predict what actions the SEC, DOJ, or other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies) might take, or what the likely outcome of any such actions might be, or estimate the range of reasonably possible fines or penalties, such actions, fines and/or penalties could be material, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Even if an inquiry or investigation does not result in an adverse determination, our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows could still be adversely impacted. If we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As most recently disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While we have remedied these material weaknesses, if we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC could be adversely affected, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC or DOJ. Any such consequence or other negative effect could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with compliance with international laws and regulations which may harm our business Although only 8% for both 2017 and 2016 of our total consolidated revenues were derived from sales outside of the U.S., we have operations across the globe, and our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our software and hardware in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations, including fines, penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation; increased risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; reduced protection of our intellectual property rights in certain countries and practical difficulties and costs of enforcing rights abroad; compliance with the laws of numerous foreign taxing jurisdictions and overlapping of different tax regimes; uncertainty around a potential reverse or renegotiation of international trade agreements and partnerships under President Donald J. Trumps administration; sales and customer service challenges associated with operating in different countries; difficulties in receiving payments from different geographies, including difficulties associated with currency fluctuations, payment cycles, transfer of funds or collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets; variations in economic or political conditions between each country or region; economic uncertainty around the world and adverse effects arising from economic interdependencies across countries and regions; and increased infrastructure and legal compliance costs. A portion of Government segment revenue is derived from U.S. government contracts, which contain provisions unique to public sector customers, including the U.S. governments right to modify or terminate these contracts at any time. In 2017 and 2016 we derived 26% and 35% , respectively, of our total consolidated revenues from contracts to provide technical expertise to government organizations and prime contractors. In any given year, the majority of our government contracting activity is associated with the U.S. Department of Defense. Contracts with the U.S. government typically provide that such contracts are terminable, in whole or in part, at the convenience of the U.S. government. If the U.S. government terminates a contract on this basis, we would be entitled to receive payment for our allowable costs and, in general, a proportionate share of our fee or profit for work actually performed. Most U.S. government contracts are also subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. As such, we may perform work prior to formal authorization, or the contract prices may be adjusted for changes in scope of work. Termination or modification of a substantial number of our U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We perform work for various U.S. government agencies and departments pursuant to fixed-price, cost-plus fixed fee and time-and-material prime contracts and subcontracts. Approximately 55% of revenues derived from government contracts for the year 10 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2017, was based on fixed-price or time and material contracts, and the balance (approximately 45% of total government revenues) was based on cost-plus fixed fee contracts. Most of our contracts are for one-year to five-year terms. While fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates we use for calculating the contract price are incorrect, we can incur losses on those contracts. In addition, some of our governmental contracts have provisions relating to cost controls, and audit rights and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then we may not realize the full benefit of the contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns would have an adverse effect on our financial results. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-plus fixed fee contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed fee. If our costs under either of these types of contracts were to exceed the contract ceiling, or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for 100% of our associated costs. Our inability to control our costs under either a time-and-materials contract or a cost-plus fixed fee contract could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. A portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and identifiable and intangible assets, which are subject to a periodic impairment analysis, a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even without a significant loss of our revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. Our goodwill was approximately $11.1 million at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , and our intangibles were $12.1 million at December 31, 2017 and $11.0 million at December 31, 2016 . Identifiable intangible assets were, primarily a result of business acquisitions and internally developed capitalized software. We test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate possible impairment. We describe the impairment testing process and results of this testing more thoroughly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report). Item 1B . Unresolved Staff Comments . We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. Item 2 . Properties . Our corporate headquarters is located at PAR Technology Park, 8383 Seneca Turnpike, New Hartford, New York. We own our corporate headquarters both the building and land. We lease all our other properties for varying terms. We believe our existing properties, both owned and leased, are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business for the foreseeable future. The following table sets forth the location, the operating segment (if applicable) that uses and the use of each of our principal properties, and each properties approximate square footage: Location Operating Segment Use Approximate Square Footage New Hartford, NY Restaurant / Retail Corporate headquarters, assembly, R&D, sales, service, and computing facilities 180,200 Boca Raton, FL Restaurant / Retail R&D 11,470 Markham, Ontario Restaurant / Retail R&D 11,100 Boulder, CO Restaurant / Retail Service 10,700 Rome, NY Government R&D, sales 30,800 San Diego, CA Restaurant / Retail R&D, sales, administration 9,500 The square footage in the table above does not include Company owned space leased to third parties. In addition to the properties identified above, we have leasehold interests in small office spaces located in: Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Shanghai, China; Singapore; Staines, United Kingdom; and Sydney, Australia (sales and service). 11 Table of Contents Item 3 . Legal Proceedings . We are not currently a party to any material litigation. See Note 10 Contingencies - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report) for information regarding legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, and a discussion about the internal investigation into conduct at our China and Singapore offices, and the civil and criminal sanctions available to the SEC, DOJ, and other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies). Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. PART II Item 5 . Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PAR. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of March 13, 2018, there were 364 holders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are held in "street name" or by beneficial holders, whose shares of common stock of record are held by brokers, banks, and other financial institutions.The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange: 2017 2016 High Low High Low First Quarter $7.34 $5.48 $6.63 $5.04 Second Quarter 9.19 7.08 6.86 4.35 Third Quarter 11.09 8.30 5.52 4.83 Fourth Quarter 11.79 7.31 5.58 4.71 We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant, including any restrictive covenants in our credit facility that restrict the payment of dividends under certain circumstances. Recipients of restricted stock awards have paid us cash equal to the par value of each share awarded. If the vesting requirements are not satisfied, we repurchase the forfeited shares at par value. In addition, employees may elect to have shares withheld to satisfy minimum statutory federal, state, and local tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of their restricted stock. When we withhold these shares, we are required to remit to the appropriate taxing authorities the market price of the shares withheld, which could be deemed a purchase of shares by us on the date of withholding. For the three months ended December 31, 2017, 2,294 shares were purchased at an average price of $9.37 per share. Item 6. Selected Financial Data . Not Required. Item 7 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. See also, Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report. Overview 12 Table of Contents PARs management technology solutions for the Restaurant/Retail segment features cloud-based and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. Our Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as management technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. Our products sold in the Restaurant/Retail segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by customers worldwide. We face competition across all categories in the Restaurant/Retail segment in which we compete based on product design, innovative features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. Our strategy is to provide complete integrated management technology solutions, supported by industry leading customer service. Our research and development efforts are focused on timely identifying changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, to rapidly and effectively develop innovative new products and enhancements to our existing products that meet and exceed customer requirements. Our strategy is to expand our Restaurant/Retail business by continuing to invest in our existing products - Brink and SureCheck - including the development of enhancements to our existing software applications and hardware platforms and the development of new and innovative cloud based software applications. To support the growth of our products, we continue to expand our direct sales force and third-party channel partners. Currently, PARs primary market is the quick serve restaurant category and hardware sales to tier 1 customers in that category. Consistent with our strategy to expand our product offerings beyond the restaurant/retail markets, we continue to focus on growing and expanding our software offerings, including our cloud software as a service (SaaS) and related hardware and support services. As we implement our strategy, we continuously monitor the trends in the markets within which we currently operate and the markets in which we intend to operate. The strategy for our PAR Government segment is to build on our sustained outstanding performance of existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for the PAR Government segment. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 We reported revenues of $ 232.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , up 1.3% from $229.7 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment were $ 171.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , a 14.9% increase, compared to $ 149.3 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2016 . PARs Government segment reported revenues of $ 61.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , a decrease of 24.0% from $ 80.3 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2016 . We reported a net loss from continuing operations of $ 3.6 million or $ 0.23 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2017 versus net income of $ 2.5 million or $ 0.16 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2016 . For 2017 and 2016 , we reported net income from discontinued operations of $ 0.2 million or $ 0.01 per share versus a loss of $ 0.7 million or $ 0.05 loss per share, respectively. 2017 results of operations include a one-time adjustment to the value of the Company's deferred tax asset of $4.5 million due to the corporate income tax rate change included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Product revenues were $ 115.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , an increase of 14.8% from $ 100.3 million recorded in 2016 . This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues from our tier 1 customers in the first half of 2017. Service revenues were $ 56.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , an increase of 15.1% from $ 49.1 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase is attributable to the diversification of our revenue base, with higher recurring revenue from our software contracts; specifically, SaaS, installation services related to product sales, and other revenue streams generated from post contract support (PCS) offerings. Contract revenues were $ 61.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $ 80.3 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease of 24.0% . This decrease was driven by lower volume within our PMO and Mission Systems' (MS) contracts, offset by an increase in value-added revenue on our Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR), contracts. 13 Table of Contents Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2017 , were 25.4% , a decrease from 26.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The decrease in product margin was primarily due to an unfavorable product mix, as a result of increased peripheral hardware sales related to projects from tier 1 customers. Service margins were 29.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017 , an increase from 27.4% recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to a favorable product mix shift to SaaS resulting from Brink's continued growth. Contract margins were 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily driven by product mix shifting from PMO to the Company's value added business lines of ISR and Mission Systems in addition to improved margin rates in both ISR and Mission Systems. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $ 38.2 million for the year ending December 31, 2017 , compared to $ 31.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase is primarily attributable to investments in sales and support services infrastructure to support the growth of Brink and reinforcement of our corporate structure in IT, finance, and corporate management. Research and development expenses were $ 13.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $ 11.6 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily related to increased software development investments for Brink and SureCheck. During the year ended December 31, 2017 , we recorded $1.0 million of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets in connection with our acquisition of Brink Software, Inc. in September 2014. We recorded $1.0 million of amortization expense associated with these assets for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Other income, net, was $ 0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to other income, net of $ 1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Other income/expense primarily includes fair value adjustments on contingent considerations, rental income, net of applicable expenses, foreign currency transactions gains and losses, fair value adjustments, fair value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan and other non-operating income/expense. The primary driver of the decrease in other income is a $0.8 million insurance recovery in the fourth quarter 2016 related to the Company's former chief financial officers unauthorized transfers of funds. Interest income (expense), net, represents interest charged on our short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense, net was $ 0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to interest income, net of $ 0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease is primarily associated with the accreted interest income of $0.2 million in 2016 related to the note receivable in connection with the Company's sale of its hotel/spa technology business operated by PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc., Springer-Miller International, LLC, and Springer-Miller Canada, ULC (collectively, PSMS) in November 2015 and higher interest expense as compared to 2016 , which is due to higher outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. For the year ended December 31, 2017 , our effective income tax rate was an expense of 1,032.8% , mainly due to the one-time deferred tax asset adjustment for the rate change under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, compared to an expense of 31.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2017 were due to the mix of taxable income from the Companys domestic and foreign jurisdictions, which is consistent with the variance in 2016 , and the impact of the adjustment for the rate change under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Benefits from stock compensation and fair value adjustments on contingent consideration impacted the variance from the federal statutory rate for 2017 as well. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and borrowings under its Credit Facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to cash generated of $ 11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The change in cash activities resulted primarily from the $6.9 million of customer deposits in the fourth quarter 2016 being applied to revenue generated in 2017. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $ 8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 versus $ 7.1 million provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 . In 2017 , capital expenditures of $ 5.1 million were primarily for PARs new ERP system and capital improvements made to our owned and leased properties. Capitalized software was $ 3.8 million and was associated with investments in Restaurant/Retail software platforms. Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations was $ 6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 versus cash used of $ 2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . In 2017 , the Company received proceeds from stock activity of 14 Table of Contents $ 1.5 million and $3.8 million related to the final installment of the 2015 sale of its hotel/spa technology business and borrowed a net of $0.8 million. In 2016 , the Company paid the third installment associated with its purchase of Brink Software, Inc. of $2.0 million. On November 29, 2016, the Company, together with certain of its U.S. subsidiaries entered into a three-year credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan Chase). The Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million, with availability thereunder equal to the lesser of (i) $15.0 million and (ii) a borrowing base (equal to the sum of 80% eligible accounts, 50% eligible raw materials inventory and 35% eligible finished goods inventory, with no more than 50% of total eligible inventory included in the borrowing base), less the aggregate principal amount outstanding (the Credit Facility). Interest accrues on outstanding principal balances at an applicable rate per annum determined, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, by reference to the CBFR Spread or the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio as at the determination date. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur or permit to exist liens on assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, consolidate or merge, pay dividends and make distributions, and financial covenants, requiring that the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio not exceed 3.0 to 1.0 and, a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 for each fiscal quarter. In August 2017, we entered into an Omnibus Amendment Number 1 to Loan Documents with JPMorgan Chase to provide the Company with more flexibility in its use of its assets and a waiver of any default relating to the location of certain collateral. In March 2018, JPMorgan Chase granted the Company a Waiver of an event of default under the Credit Agreement due to its failure to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017. On December 31, 2017 , the applicable rate under the Credit Facility was 3.25% plus the CBFR Spread or LIBOR plus the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio. There was $0.95 million outstanding and up to $14.05 million available under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017 . In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $0.4 million and $0.6 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. This loan matures on November 1, 2019. Interest is fixed at 4.00% through maturity. The annual loan payment, including interest through November 1, 2019, is $0.2 million. In connection with the Company's acquisition of Brink Software, Inc. in September 2014, the Company has recorded contingent consideration that may be payable to the former owners of Brink Software, Inc. based on future performance metrics. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration included within the Company's consolidated balance sheets is $3.0 million. We expect our operating cash flows and available capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the next 12 months. Our actual cash needs will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, including growth of our SaaS revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, market acceptance of our products, and potential fines and penalties that, while currently inestimable, could be material (see Item 1A Risk Factors for further discussion about the potential adverse effect of such fines and penalties on our business). If we are required or otherwise elect to seek additional funding, we cannot be certain that such additional funding will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Our future principal payments under the mortgage loan and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 380 $ 195 $ 185 $ $ Operating leases 14,690 2,936 4,943 4,124 2,687 Total 15,070 3,131 5,128 4,124 2,687 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. We believe our use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis. Primary areas where financial information is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the 15 Table of Contents application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Restaurant/Retail Contracts Our Restaurant/Retail segments revenues consist of sales of our POS systems. We derive revenue from the following sources: (1) hardware sales, (2) software license agreements, including perpetual licenses and SaaS, (3) professional services, (4) hosting services and (5) post-contract customer support (PCS). Subject to the multiple element arrangements discussion below, we recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon installation at the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by us) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For software sales sold as a perpetual license, typically our Pixel software offering, where we are the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, field and depot repair, subscription software products, associated software maintenance, and software related hosting services. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates as well as contracted prices with the customer, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to and collected from the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. Software sold as a service with our Brink and SureCheck software offerings, is recorded as deferred revenue when billed and collected and recognized ratably over the contract term. The Company frequently enters into multiple-element arrangements with our customers including hardware, software, professional consulting services and maintenance support services. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, when deliverables include software and non-software products and services, we evaluate and separate each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of PAR. Multiple Element Arrangements Multiple element arrangements that include hardware, service, and software offerings are separated based upon the stand-alone price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, overall consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the units relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to each deliverable: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE), and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. The Company uses BESP to allocate revenue when we are unable to establish VSOE or TPE of selling price. BESP is primarily used for elements such as products that are not consistently priced within a narrow range. The Company determines BESP for a deliverable by considering 16 Table of Contents multiple factors including product and customer class, geography, average discount, and managements historical pricing practices. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and software elements are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the undelivered maintenance and other services elements are recognized as the services are provided or on a straight-line basis over the service period. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, revenue is not recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. Software elements, generally software PCS, and professional services revenue are recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vendor specific objective evidence, where available. If VSOE is not available for all elements, we use the residual method to separate the elements as long as we have VSOE for the undelivered elements. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, we defer the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Government Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable is stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. Inventories Our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We use certain estimates and judgments and consider several factors, including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs We capitalize certain costs related to the development of computer software used in our Restaurant/Retail segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when we have completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility (as defined within ASC 985-20 for software cost related to sold as a perpetual license) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, which is generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. Software development is also capitalized in accordance with ASC 350-40, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal - Use Software, and is amortized over the expected benefit period, which generally ranges from three to seven years. Long-lived assets are tested for impairment when events or conditions indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be fully recoverable from future cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Accounting for Business Combinations We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that acquired assets and assumed liabilities be recorded at their respective fair values on the date of acquisition. The fair value of the consideration paid is assigned to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded to goodwill. Intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Fair value determinations and useful life estimates are based on, among other factors, estimates of expected future cash flows from revenues of the intangible assets acquired, estimates of appropriate discount rates used to present value expected future cash flows, estimated useful lives of the intangible assets acquired and other factors. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and future expectations. For these and other reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results. Contingent Consideration We determine the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration using a discounted cash flow method, with significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 fair value measurement as defined in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. The significant inputs in the Level 3 measurement not supported by market activity include our probability assessments of expected future cash flows related to our acquisition of Brink Software Inc. in 2014, during the contingent consideration period, appropriately discounted considering the uncertainties associated with the obligation, and calculated in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreement. The liabilities for the contingent consideration is established at the time of the acquisition and will be evaluated on a quarterly basis based on additional information as it becomes available. Any change in the fair value adjustment is recorded in the earnings of the period in which the evaluation is made. During 2017 , we recorded a $1.0 million adjustment to decrease the fair value of the Company's contingent consideration related to its acquisition of Brink Software Inc., versus a $1.1 million adjustment to decrease the fair value during 2016 . These adjustments are reflected within other expense on the consolidated statement of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations may result from changes in probability assumptions with respect to the likelihood of achieving the various contingent payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. We operate in two reportable operating segments, which are the reporting units used in the test of goodwill for impairment - Restaurant/Retail and Government. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated an impairment. We utilize different methodologies in performing the goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. For both the Restaurant/Retail and Government reporting units, these methodologies include an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and multiple market approaches and the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in our past annual impairment tests. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate that a prudent investor would require before making an investment in our equity. We consider this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on our forecasted results and, therefore, established this method's weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within our discounted cash flow model include projected financial operating results, a long-term growth rate of 3% and, depending on the reporting unit, discount rates ranging from 14.5% to 27.0%. As stated above, because the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to our projected 18 Table of Contents operating results, including changes to the long-term growth rate, could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by us. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the reporting unit to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of valuation are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the two methods require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the reporting units similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. We consider these methods appropriate because they provide an indication of fair value supported by current market conditions. We established our weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for the public company method and quoted price method for both the Restaurant/Retail and Government, reporting units. The most critical assumption underlying the market methods we use are the comparable companies selected. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples based on the comparable companies selected. As such, a change in the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Restaurant/Retail and Government reporting units is $10.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Restaurant/Retail reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value as a result of the Step 1 analysis performed to assess if the fair value of the reporting units is lower than their carrying value. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value as a result of the Step 1 analysis performed. There were no goodwill impairment charges recorded for the Restaurant/Retail reporting unit or the Government reporting unit for the years ended December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2016. Restaurants / Retail: In deriving our fair value estimates, we utilized key assumptions built on the current product portfolio mix adjusted to reflect continued revenue increases from Brink and SureCheck. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, include revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. We utilize annual revenue growth rates ranging between 3% and 32%. The high-end growth rate reflects our projected revenues from anticipated increases in installations of Brink and SureCheck at new customer locations. These software platforms are expected to expand our capabilities into new markets. We believe these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which we will enter, combined with the projected market share we expect to achieve. Overall, the projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. We utilize gross margin estimates that are reflective of expected increased recurring SaaS revenue from software sold as a service that is expected to exceed historical gross margins. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for the Restaurant/Retail reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from our core technology platforms. We believe utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect our continued investment in our products is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Restaurant/Retail reporting unit. Finally, we utilize a discount rate of approximately 27.0% for the Restaurant/Retail reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR considers to be its competitors, and was based on volatility between our historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which we operate could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact our operating performance. Although we have seen an improvement in the markets which we serve, continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of our products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Such reductions could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of our reporting units used to support our annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value re-measurement, 19 Table of Contents particularly if we are unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs. These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. Government: The estimated fair value of the Government segment is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Consistent with prior year methodology, in deriving our fair value estimates, we have utilized key assumptions built on the current core business. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. We have reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium noting no impairment as of December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2016 was recorded. Deferred Taxes We have $13.8 million of deferred tax assets that are reviewed quarterly for recoverability and valued accordingly. These deferred tax assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and our estimates of future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Principles - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Report) for details. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.