Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, sales, service, wellness, and computing facilities 216,800 Rome, NY Government Research and development 30,800 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,400 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 11,470 Markham, Ontario Hospitality Research and development 11,100 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 10,700 25 Table of Contents The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, NY, which is near Utica, in central New York State. In addition to those noted above, the Company maintains smaller facilities in San Diego, California, Shanghai, Peoples Republic of China, Staines, United Kingdom, Dubai and Paris France. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock, par value $0.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2015, there were approximately 424 owners of record of the Companys common stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2015 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2015 2014 Period Low High Low High First quarter $ 4.03 $ 6.04 $ 4.65 $ 5.50 Second quarter $ 3.80 $ 4.98 $ 4.12 $ 4.99 Third quarter $ 4.11 $ 5.29 $ 3.78 $ 5.24 Fourth quarter $ 5.12 $ 7.39 $ 4.28 $ 6.18 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock, and the Company presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Not Required. 26 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. The Company's government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. 27 Table of Contents The Company's products sold in the hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding its hospitality businesses through its product investments and continued development of its cloud based software applications. These products include its Brink POS software within the fast casual market, with integrated features that include loyalty, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, mobile dashboard, and much more. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications and the development of the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. The Quick Serve Restaurant market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. PAR primarily sells its hardware platforms to this market, specifically, within our Tier 1 clients. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently win renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. Results of Operations 2015 Compared to 2014 During the year ending December 31, 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS) to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. This transaction closed on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operation and Cash Flows in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. Additionally, the assets and associated liabilities have been classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. 28 Table of Contents The Company reported revenues of $229.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of 5.1% from the $217.9 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2014. PARs revenue from its hospitality segment of $141.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of 8.4% compared to the $130.2 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2014. PARs government segment reported revenues of $87.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, a slight increase from the $87.7 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2014. PAR reported net income from continuing operations of $4.0 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2015 versus $71,000 or $0.00 per diluted share for the same period in 2014. For fiscal year 2015 and 2014, the Company reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $4.9 million or $0.32 loss per share versus a loss of $3.7 million or $0.24 loss per share, respectively. Product revenues were $94.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of 11.7% from the $84.5 million recorded in 2014. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from the Companys global tier 1 accounts. In addition, growth within the Companys domestic tier one accounts and new accounts established through the acquisition of Brink contributed to the revenue increase as compared to prior year. Service revenues were $46.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of 2.3% from the $45.7 million reported for the same period in 2014. The increase is the result of the Company diversifying its revenue with a higher recurring revenue base through its software contracts, specifically software sold as a service and other revenue streams generated through post contract support offerings. Contract revenues were $87.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $87.7 million reported for the same period in 2014, an increase of 0.2%. This increase is driven by increased activity within the Companys intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance contracts slightly offset by a reduction in revenue generated from mission systems contracts. 29 Table of Contents Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2015 were 27.8%, a decrease from 30.3% for the same period in 2014. During the year negatively impacting the overall product margins were a high volume of lower margin peripheral devices sold to our largest hospitality customers and a larger deployment of higher margin software for a specific rollout in 2014 that did not recur in 2015. Service margins were 29.8% for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase from the 23.4% recorded for the same period in 2014. The increase is a result of favorable service revenue mix during the year. The primary driver is the continued growth of revenue streams within the Companys software platforms sold as a service. In addition, the Company experienced a high volume of its time and material revenue within PARs repair center. Contract margins were 6.8% for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to 6.1% for the same period in 2014. This variance is the result of a favorable performance in fixed price contracts and lower product development costs in 2015. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $28.3 million for the year ending December 31, 2015, compared to $29.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower equity based compensation expense and the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its hospitality segment operations. The Company continues to monitor its cost structure, including strategic initiatives to reduce its fixed costs. Partially offsetting the decrease was severance related expense. Research and development expenses were $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $8.9 million recorded for the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily related to increased software development costs for products within the hospitality segment, primarily R&D associated with the Companys Brink POS software application. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded $987,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink that was acquired on September 18, 2014. The Company recorded $279,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2014. 30 Table of Contents Other expense, net was $800,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to other income, net of $485,000 for the same period in 2014. Other income/expense primarily includes fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, net, foreign currency fair value adjustments, and other non-operating income/expense. The decrease primarily relates to a write off of $776,000 for investments, and lower rental income received during the year. The investment write-off of $776,000 in fiscal year 2015 represents the write-off of unauthorized investments that were made in contravention of the Companys policies and procedures involving the Companys funds. The unauthorized investments occurred during the period between September 25, 2015 and November 6, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the Company is uncertain of the collectability relating to these investments and as a result, reduced its fair value to zero. The write-off of the investment resulted in the Company identifying a material weakness over financial reporting as described in Item 9A and also described in footnote 1. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $308,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to $136,000 for the same period in 2014. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Companys effective income tax rate was an expense of 27.2%, compared to expense of 98.1% in 2014. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2015 were due to the mix of taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2014, the Company repatriated earnings through the payment of a $5.0 million dividend by its Chinese subsidiary to its domestic parent company, resulting in income tax expense of $2.2 million on those earnings. The Company considers this a one-time repatriation which helped finance the Brink acquisition and further earnings are considered permanently re-invested. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and a line of credit with its bank. Cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations was $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to cash provided of $9.6 million for the same period in 2014. 31 Table of Contents In 2015, cash was generated from the Companys operating results plus the add-back of non-cash expenses and a reduction of inventory. Offsetting significant operating cash flow components include a decrease accounts payable primarily due to the timing of vendor payments and a decrease in customer deposits associated with the Companys hospitality segment. In 2014, cash generated from operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital. Significant operating cash flow components include cash used to procure inventory required for planned deployments in 2015, as well as cash used through an increase in receivables resulting from significant sales volume recorded late in fiscal year 2014. Operating cash flow was generated by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses mainly due to the timing of vendor payments associated with the aforementioned growth in inventory and other amounts owed to vendors. Cash was also generated through the increase in customer deposits associated with the Companys hospitality segment. Cash generated from investing activities from continuing operations was $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 versus cash used of $8.2 million for the same period in 2014. In 2015, the Company received cash proceeds of $12.1 million related to the sale of its hotel/spa technology business. This was offset by the Company wrote-off $776,000 of unauthorized investments that were made in contravention of the Companys policies and procedures involving the Companys funds. Capital expenditures of $1.7 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $2.1 million and was used for investments in many of the Companys hospitality software platforms. In 2014, the first installment payment associated with the purchase of Brink Software Inc. which accounted for use of approximately $5.0 million of the investing capital. Capital expenditures of $1.5 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $1.7 million and was used for investments in many of the Companys hospitality software platforms. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 versus cash generated of $4.8 million for the same period in 2014. In 2015, the Company decreased borrowings on its credit facility by $5.0 million, net and its long-term debt by $0.2 million and benefited $0.5 million from the exercise of employee stock options. Additionally, the second installment payment associated with the purchase of Brink Software Inc. accounted for approximately $3.0 million was made. In 2014, the Company borrowed $5.0 million, net on its credit facility in connection with the purchase of Brink Software Inc., and decreased its long term borrowings by $0.2 million. 32 Table of Contents Through June 4, 2014, the Company maintained a credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit (with the option to increase to $30.0 million), which expired in June 2014. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. This credit facility was secured by certain assets of the Company. On June 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its then existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of the facility through June 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior facility. This facility provided the Company with capital of up to $20.0 million (with the option to increase to $30.0 million) in the form of a revolving line of credit. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A (the Credit Facility). The terms of the Credit Facility provide for up to $25 million of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.25% at December 31, 2015) or, at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.5% 2.0%). At December 31, 2015, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 3.50% during fiscal year 2015. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. On March 19, 2015, the Company amended the Credit Facility to reduce the EBITDA requirement and extend the fixed charge coverage ratio. The amendment provides the Company flexibility to continue investing in the Companys future product offerings while maintaining certain covenant thresholds as defined in the amendment. On March 16, 2016, the Company received a notice of defaults under its current Credit Facility due to unauthorized investments made during 2015 by the companys former Chief Financial Officer, which were not permitted investments as defined in the lending agreement. See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on these unauthorized investments. These unauthorized investments involved cash transfers totaling $776,000, which amounts have been written off by the Company as of December 31, 2015 (the Unauthorized Transactions). On March 24, 2016 the lender provided waivers of the defaults, subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the waiver, including entry by the Company into a fourth amendment to the Companys Credit Agreement. 33 Table of Contents On March 24, 2016, based on the waiver received, the Company executed the fourth amendment to its existing Credit Agreement. Under the terms and conditions of this amendment, the Company has undertaken to engage, and has engaged, an independent consultant to review its internal controls relating to financial reporting and authorization procedures for financial transactions (including, without limitation, investments) initiated by the Companys officers (the Internal Control Review). The company has agreed to deliver to the lender a report prepared by Companys consultant that sets forth, in reasonable detail, the results of the Internal Control Review, together with a summary of any recommended changes to the Companys internal control procedures (the ICR Report). To the extent the ICR Report sets forth recommended changes to Borrowers internal control procedures (IC Recommendations), The Company has agreed to promptly take steps to implement the IC Recommendations in all material respects. The Company has agreed to provide periodic updates to the lender relating to the Internal Control Review, implementation of IC Recommendations and any ongoing investigations related to the Unauthorized Transactions In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $746,000 and $919,000 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate was 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014, the fixed rate was converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. Effective November 1, 2014, the Company entered into an agreement that fixed the interest rate at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual mortgage payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $206,000. In connection with the acquisition of Brink Software Inc. on September 18, 2014, the Company recorded indebtedness to the former owners of Brink Software Inc. under the stock purchase agreement. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the principal balance of the note payable was $2.0 million and $5.0 million and it had a carrying value of $1.9 million and $4.8 million, respectively. The carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of acquisition. The note does not bear interest and repayment terms are $3.0 million, which was paid on the first anniversary of close, September 18, 2015, and $2.0 million payable on the second anniversary of close, September 18, 2016. 34 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2016, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3.0 million to $5.0 million. The Company does not routinely enter into long term contracts with its major hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, supports the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. The Companys future principal payments under its stock purchase agreement with Brink, mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 2,669 $ 2,103 $ 383 $ 183 $ - Operating lease 5,462 1,456 2,073 1,195 738 Total $ 8,131 $ 3,559 $ 2,456 $ 1,378 $ 738 35 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Hospitality Contracts Our hospitality segments revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard POS system to the hospitality segment. We derive revenue from the following sources: (1) hardware sales, (2) software license agreements, including perpetual licenses and software as a service, (3) professional services, (4) hosting services and (5) post-contract customer support (" PCS "). We recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. 36 Table of Contents Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. For software sales sold as a perpetual license, typical our Pixel software offering, where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, field and depot repair, subscription software products, associated software maintenance, and software related hosted services. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates as well as contracted prices with the customer, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. Software sold as a service with our Brink and SureCheck software offerings, is recognized based on the contracted price over its contract term. PAR frequently enters into multiple-element arrangements with its customers including hardware, software, professional consulting services and maintenance support services. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, when deliverables include software and non-software products and services, PAR evaluates and separates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of PAR. 37 Table of Contents Multiple element arrangements which include hardware, service, and software offerings are separated based upon the stand alone price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, overall consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the unit's relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to each deliverable: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE), and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. The Company uses BESP to allocate revenue when we are unable to establish VSOE or TPE of selling price. BESP is primarily used for elements such as products that are not consistently priced within a narrow range. The Company determines BESP for a deliverable by considering multiple factors including product and customer class, geography, average discount, and management's historical pricing practices. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and software elements are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the undelivered maintenance and other services elements are recognized as the services are provided or on a straight-line basis over the service period. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, revenue is not recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. In situations where PARs solutions contain software related services (generally PCS and professional services), revenue is recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vender specific objective evidence, where available. If VSOE is not available for all elements, we will use the residual method to separate the elements as long as we have VSOE for the undelivered elements. If the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. 38 Table of Contents Government Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. 39 Table of Contents Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when the Company has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility ((as defined within ASC 985-20 for software cost related to sold as a perpetual license and ASC-350-40 for software sold as a service) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. Accounting for Business Combinations The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their respective fair values on the date of acquisition. The fair value of the consideration paid is assigned to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded to goodwill. Intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Fair value determinations and useful life estimates are based on, among other factors, estimates of expected future cash flows from revenues of the intangible assets acquired, estimates of appropriate discount rates used to present value expected future cash flows, estimated useful lives of the intangible assets acquired and other factors. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates it has made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and future expectations. For these and other reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results. 40 Table of Contents Contingent Consideration The Company determines the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration using a discounted cash flow method, with significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 fair value measurement as defined in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. The significant inputs in the Level 3 measurement not supported by market activity included the Companys probability assessments of expected future cash flows related to the Companys acquisition of Brink Software Inc. during the contingent consideration period, appropriately discounted considering the uncertainties associated with the obligation, and calculated in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreement. The liabilities for the contingent consideration are established at the time of the acquisition and will be evaluated on a quarterly basis based on additional information as it becomes available. Any change in the fair value adjustment is recorded in the earnings of that period. During fiscal year 2015, the Company recorded a $90,000 adjustment to increase the fair value of its contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Brink Software Inc.. This is reflected within other expense on the statement of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations may result from changes in probability assumptions with respect to the likelihood of achieving the various contingent payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two business segments, hospitality and government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). For fiscal year 2015, the two reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: restaurants and government as compared to three reporting units tested in 2014 or restaurants, hotel/spa and government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. 41 Table of Contents The Company utilizes different methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test. For both the government and restaurant reporting units, these methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and multiple market approaches and the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Companys past annual impairment tests. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the Company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate of 3% and discount rates ranging from 17.5% to 21%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. 42 Table of Contents The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for the public company method and quoted price method for both the government and restaurant reporting unit. The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the restaurant and government reporting units is $10.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the restaurant reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 18%. The estimated fair value of the government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. There were no goodwill impairment charges recorded for the restaurant and government reporting units for the years ended December 31, 2015 or 2014. During fiscal year 2015, the Company performed a strategic analysis of its current product and business unit offerings and as a result, entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS) to affiliates of Constellation Software Inc. This transaction closed on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. At the time of sale, the hotel/spa reporting unit carried approximately $6.1 million of goodwill. Based on the purchase price, the Company recorded a $2.4 million impairment of the goodwill to write down the net assets to its fair value. In connection with the sale, the Company wrote-off the remaining goodwill balance associated with the hotel/spa reporting unit. Restaurants: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. 43 Table of Contents The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 7% and 15%. The high end growth rate reflects the Companys projected revenues resulting from the increased install base of Brink POS and SureCheck customers. These software platforms will expand the Companys capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. Overall, the projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates that are reflective of increased recurring revenue from software sold as a service that will exceed historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from the Companys core technology platforms. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in its products is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the restaurant reporting unit. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 21% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Companys operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value re-measurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs . These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. 44 Table of Contents Government: The estimated fair value of the government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Consistent with prior year methodology, in deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium noting no impairment as of December 31, 2015 or 2014 was recorded. Deferred Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.