Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General PAR is a global foodservice technology company providing leading omnichannel cloud-based software and hardware solutions to the restaurant industry in three major restaurant categories quick service, fast casual, and table service , and the retail industry, including convenience and fuel retailers (C-Stores). Our product and service offerings include point-of-sale, customer engagement and loyalty, digital ordering and delivery, operational intelligence, payment processing, hardware, and related technologies, solutions, and services. We provide enterprise restaurants, franchisees, and other foodservice outlets with operational efficiencies through a data-driven network with integration capabilities from front- and back-of-house to customer fulfillment. Our omnichannel solutions are used in more than 140,000 active restaurants and retail locations in more than 110 countries. 2024 Business Highlights Stuzo Acquisition: In March 2024 we acquired Stuzo, LLC, a digital engagement software provider to C-Stores. With the acquisition of Stuzo, we expanded into an adjacent vertical and became a leader in technology for convenience and fuel retailers. Divestiture of Government Segment: In June 2024 we divested PAR Government Systems Corporation (PGSC) and in July 2024 we divested Rome Research Corporation (RRC) resulting in the divestiture of our Government segment; beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2024, we operate in a single reportable segment. TASK Group Acquisition: In July 2024 we acquired TASK Group Holdings Limited ("TASK Group"), an Australia-based global foodservice transaction platform, offering international unified commerce solutions, including interactive customer engagement and seamless integration, tailored for major brands worldwide. The TASK Groups transaction management platform, TASK, is used by some of the worlds largest foodservice brands including, Starbucks Corporation and Guzman y Gomez, and its loyalty customer engagement platform, Plexure, is used by McDonalds Corporation in 63 markets. With the addition of TASK Group, we serve the top enterprise foodservice brands across the globe with a unified commerce approach from front-of-house to back-of-house. Delaget Acquisition: In December 2024 we acquired Delaget, LLC, a leading provider of restaurant analytics and business intelligence solutions. Delagets comprehensive platform delivers data analytics, loss prevention, and operational insights that help restaurant operators streamline operations and improve profitability. Our mission is to enable personalized experiences that connect people to the brands, meals, and moments they love; and our strategy to achieve this mission is grounded in delivering a unified experience across our comprehensive suite of subscription services, hardware, and professional services that simplifies our customers' operations, elevates their customer engagement, and drives their continued success. Our vision of unified experience is a single platform that provides seamless connections from our customers' backend systems through to their customer-facing channels enabling our customers to deliver innovation, differentiated experiences and competitive advantage. It's the setup enterprise restaurants and retailers require to support omnichannel journeys and create a unified view of customer interactions, products, and management systems. We continually strive to enhance and expand our omnichannel solutions to provide full integration of data points that drive guest satisfaction and operational efficiencies to our customers across our product and service offerings. 4 Table of Contents Our Products and Services Subscription Services Our subscription services consist of software-as-a-service ("SaaS") solutions, related software support, managed platform development services, and transaction-based payment processing services, and are grouped into two product lines: ENGAGEMENT CLOUD, offering customer facing solutions: PUNCHH, an enterprise-grade customer loyalty and engagement solution that enables customers to deliver personalized promotions to their customers to increase customer lifetime value and same-store sales. Punchh seamlessly integrates with our customers existing systems, providing AI-powered tools to deliver omnichannel loyalty experiences and campaigns to engage their customers, create real-time 360-degree insights and drive repeat purchases and higher average spend. PAR ORDERING, an eCommerce platform powering digital customer touchpoints from mobile, web, kiosk to delivery marketplaces. PAR Ordering provides customers with the tools they need to grow their digital business, manage orders from substantially all channels and order types, orchestrate their delivery operations, and fully control their digital experience to retain a direct customer relationship. PAR RETAIL, a digital engagement software solution for convenience and fuel retailers (C-Stores) with an industry-leading guest engagement platform serving major brands in the space. PAR Retail enables retailers to deliver seamless, personalized experiences across mobile, web, and in-store channels. By leveraging data-driven insights, PAR Retail helps businesses increase customer engagement, drive loyalty program participation, and grow same-store sales with innovative, integrated technology solutions. PLEXURE, an international customer engagement and loyalty platform that delivers hyper-personalized marketing campaigns and promotions in real-time. Leveraging advanced data analytics and machine learning, Plexure seamlessly integrates with existing systems to provide actionable insights and enhance the customer experience. By driving engagement across multiple channels, Plexure helps increase customer lifetime value, boost repeat transactions, and improve same-store sales performance through tailored, data-driven solutions. OPERATOR CLOUD, offering front-of-house and back-of-house operator solutions: PAR POS, an open cloud, point-of-sale solution that provides operators with tools to seamlessly integrate with multiple product offerings - including kiosks, kitchen video systems, and enterprise reporting - through PAR's ecosystem of integration partners. PAR PAY, includes our PAR Payment Services merchant services business that enables electronic payment and processing services for businesses of all sizes to accept electronic payments online or in-person and PAR Pay 5 Table of Contents Gateway, our front-end technology that reads payment cards and sends customer information to the merchant acquiring bank for processing. Combined PAR Payment Services and PAR Pay Gateway offer a comprehensive payment processing solution that allows our customers to accept a variety of payments methods including debit and credit cards, near-field communication contactless, mobile devices, digital wallets and gift cards. PAR OPS, includes Data Central and Delaget product offerings that leverage business intelligence, analytics, and automation technologies to streamline operations. Serving as the central hub of restaurant intelligence, PAR OPS aggregates data from point-of-sale, inventory, supply, payroll, and accounting systems to deliver actionable insights and a comprehensive view of operations. By simplifying complex data into intuitive dashboards and reports, PAR OPS equips customers with the tools to achieve peak operational and financial efficiency, driving better decision-making and performance across their business. TASK, an enterprise-grade technology solution, delivers powerful solutions to streamline operations and drive efficiency for hospitality and retail businesses. Specializing in point-of-sale, kitchen management, and inventory systems, TASK offers a transaction management platform that integrates seamlessly with existing infrastructure. Designed for scalability and reliability, TASK empowers businesses to optimize workflows, enhance service delivery, and elevate the customer experience through innovative, data-driven solutions. Our SaaS solutions are extensible and built on open application programming interfaces (API) enabling integration by more than 550 integration partners, including leading industry brands, to extend the reach and capabilities of our SaaS solutions and those of our integration partners. Hardware Our hardware offerings include point-of-sale terminals and tablets, wireless headsets, drive-thru systems, kitchen display systems, kiosks, printers, payment devices, and other in-store peripherals: Point-of-Sale Hardware. Our POS hardware platforms are designed to reliably operate in harsh environments associated with food service. PAR terminals, including PAR WAVE and PAR PHASE, and our EverServ POS tablets are durable and highly functioning, scalable, and easily integrated, offering customers competitive performance at a cost-conscious price. Our open architecture POS platforms are optimized to support our SaaS solutions, as well as many third-party POS software applications, support a distributed processing environment and are suitable for a broad range of use and functions within the markets served. Wireless Communications, Drive-Thru Systems. Our wireless headsets for drive-thru order-taking provide our customers with another means to deliver their products and serve their customers. The PAR G5 and PAR Clear headsets provide clear audio and an ergonomic fit. PAR's drive-thru timer systems provide crew and managers near-real-time feedback to improve speed of service and meet performance targets. In-Store Peripherals. We partner with numerous vendors that offer in-store peripherals, including payment devices, cash drawers, and printers, allowing us to deliver a comprehensive, integrated hardware solution. Professional Services We provide a comprehensive portfolio of support services to our customers, including hardware repair, installation and implementation, training, and on-site and technical support. Hardware repair. We offer depot repair, warranty, and overnight Advanced Exchange services from our offices in San Diego, California, Mississauga, Ontario, and our corporate headquarters in New Hartford, New York. Installation and implementation. We offer hardware installation and software implementation services. Training. We offer application training to customers in-store staff and provide technical training to our customers information systems personnel. On-site and technical support. We offer on-site support in the continental U.S. through our field tech service network, and 24-hour help desk support from our diagnostic service centers located in New Hartford, New York and Tampa, Florida. Outside the continental U.S. we provide our professional services either directly or through authorized providers. 6 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We sell our products and services to enterprise restaurants, franchisees, and other restaurant outlets and to C-Stores and other retail customers, including amusement parks, cinemas, cruise lines, spas, casinos, and other ticketing and entertainment venues. Our dedicated sales teams work closely with potential customers to understand their operational challenges and recommend the most effective solutions. Our sales teams are organized in two main areas: enterprise customer sales, focused on tier-one (brands operating 500 or more sites) and tier-two (brands operating 50-499 sites) customers; these customers are generally driven by requests for proposals and have longer sales cycles, where we aid our sales team with premier support and pre-sales engineers; and sales to customers with small to medium-size businesses, where we focus on providing simplified solutions and quicker implementation of our products. We also leverage a network of channel partners, including resellers, distributors, and integrators, as a cost effective means of extending our selling opportunities. Sales and marketing expenses were $41.7 million, $38.5 million, and $34.9 million, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. We have longstanding relationships with several of the largest brands in the restaurant space, including as an approved provider of restaurant technology solutions and related support to McDonald's Corporation and its franchisees since 1980, to Yum! Brands since 1983, and to Dairy Queen since 2018. McDonald's Corporation represented 15% of our total revenue in 2024. Competition The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete on the basis of features and functionality, user experience, integration capabilities, method of delivery (cloud versus traditional on-premise software applications), existing and planned product design, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price, and customer service. Many of our larger customers have approved several suppliers of software and hardware similar to one or more of our products. Our open integration platform, enterprise-grade omnichannel cloud-based software and hardware solutions, combined with our development capabilities, extensive domain knowledge and expertise, excellent product reliability, direct sales teams, and responsive customer service and support, are some of our competitive advantages. We also believe our customer base is a competitive advantage; our customers are primarily enterprise and fast-growing brands and typically choose our products when opening new stores and locations. However, several factors can affect our ability to successfully compete, including rapid adoption of new technologies such as AI in product development and as a component of products and services, the constant introduction of new product and service offerings, and aggressive pricing strategies. We face competition from companies both within our market segment and from those targeting lower market tiers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources, more relevant product and service offerings, and larger established customer bases. This competitive landscape can impact our market share and growth potential. As competition intensifies, both from existing competitors and new market entrants, we must continually innovate and adapt to maintain our competitive edge. Additionally, as we expand into new markets, we will encounter established competitors and new market entrants, further challenging our ability to compete effectively. Supply We have agreements for the supply of hardware products and components, including long-term or volume-based purchase agreements with some suppliers. We have alternative sources in the event one or more of our component suppliers are not able to perform or fully perform; and we hold safety stocks of single source hardware products in quantities that we believe are sufficient to protect against possible supply chain disruptions. To mitigate supply chain risks, we continue to expand our supplier network, including identifying and/or establishing alternative suppliers of our hardware products, increase our inventory levels of scarce components and adjust our pricing to reflect market conditions. 7 Table of Contents Research and Development Product research, innovation, and product development are an integral part of our business. We continuously evaluate customer needs and new technologies to enable us to develop innovative and relevant products and product enhancements. We leverage AI to assist in the generation of code and other product-related artifacts which assists in driving efficiency and innovation in our development process. Research and development expenses were $67.3 million, $58.4 million, and $48.6 million, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Intellectual Property We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property. We have U.S. and foreign patents filed and issued to protect our discoveries and inventions, registered and common law trademarks to protect our brand, and copyrights that relate to software and various distinctive characteristics of our products. We also rely on a combination of confidentiality and assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees and consultants, and enter into confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers and other third parties with whom we have strategic relationships. We believe our use and reliance on intellectual property laws and our agreements and licenses protect and maintain our rights in our intellectual property; however, there can be no assurance that our trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights in technologies that are relevant to our business; or that our intellectual property rights will give us a competitive advantage. For a discussion of risks associated with intellectual property, refer to the Risk Factor"Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and materially and adversely harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows" in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors", which is incorporated herein by reference. Government Regulation We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, data security and personal information, content, data retention and deletion as well as U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that impact the operations of our business, including employee matters, import/export controls, trade restrictions, including tariffs, anti-corruption and bribery. A failure, or alleged failure, by us to comply with any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For additional information about government regulation and laws applicable to our business, refer to the risks described in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors". Human Capital We prioritize finding, developing and rewarding extraordinary talent. Our employee-first strategy is designed to provide an inclusive and safe environment where our employees enjoy coming to work each day to support our customers and grow our business. As of December 31, 2024, we employed 1,585 people worldwide, 1,581 of whom were full-time. We value urgency, ownership, delivering outcomes, never settling and winning together, which we consider to be the foundation for how we operate and make decisions. Leadership's Role: Our senior management team is responsible for developing and executing our human capital strategy. We seek employees who share a passion for technology and its ability to improve our customers businesses. Our mission is to create an environment that reflects our values of urgency, ownership, delivering outcomes, never settling and winning together where our employees thrive. Our strategy is to seek to hire the best talent, give them the responsibility and authority they deserve, and let them make the decisions on how to best execute. We design our employee compensation and benefits programs to be competitive and consistent with our values, to incentivize and reward outstanding performance. Our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President, Commercial Finance regularly update the compensation committee of our board of directors on key areas of our human capital strategy, including the following: Culture: Our commitment to culture is simple: its about community and belonging. We want to understand and integrate our employees unique perspectives and voices every day. Our employees should feel a sense of belonging and want to be part of the PAR team. 8 Table of Contents Employee Engagement and Talent Management/Development: Consistent with our employee-first strategy, we believe that our employees should have the opportunity to communicate their feedback, concerns and suggestions. We conduct annual employee engagement surveys, and quarterly pulse surveys. Understanding the pulse of our employees through these surveys is critical to inform our strategies around employee engagement, retention and total rewards. In 2024, we introduced quarterly Living Our Values awards. Employees submit examples where PAR values are demonstrated by a coworker, enabling them to be selected as a quarterly Living Our Values winner. Winning recipients are recognized in front of their peers for their efforts and accomplishments, in addition to custom swag and spot bonuses. We offer a variety of programs to support employee growth and development at PAR. In 2024, we launched the PAR Career Framework which maps employees worldwide to a job-level structure. This career mapping drives consistency and intentional career discussions between managers and employees, enabling ongoing development of talent and internal mobility across the organization. Additionally, it provides an objective and equitable process for integrating incoming talent both organically via hiring and inorganically via M&A activity. In 2024 all people leaders were enrolled to attend PARs Leadership Academy, which is designed as an annual program for new and developing people leaders to gain the skills necessary for people management at PAR. Our Annual Talent Roadmap includes a performance review, and 360 feedback annually for all employees, as well as a robust talent review of director level and above employees with our executive team. We offer a voluntary mentoring program and a womens development program annually that employees can nominate themselves for.In 2025, we will continue to invest in training and development tools and additional resources such as tracking career development discussions between employees and managers, investing in individual career coaching, and continuing to create custom development content for specific teams and departments to meet employees where they are. Our compensation philosophy aims to attract, retain and incentivize top performers in a highly competitive market for talent using short-term and long-term performance targets. To support our meritocratic, pay-for-performance strategy, we reward employees for achieving performance targets and contributing to our culture by living our values day in and day out. We have a robust CEO award program that gives leaders the opportunity to over index on rewarding top performers in their organizations during the annual performance review cycle. Health and Safety: The health and safety of our employees in the workplace are of utmost importance to us. We regularly assess our facilities to ensure compliance with our health and safety guidelines and regulatory requirements. In December 2024, we launched our Headspace Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to our global team for confidential best-in-class meditation and mindfulness support as well as a full suite of work-life services available to PARs full-time employees and their families. Talent Acquisition and Attrition: PAR works diligently to attract the best talent from a diverse range of sources to meet the current and future demands of our business. To proactively attract diverse talent and broaden our candidate pool, we engage with universities, professional associations, industry groups, and leverage PARs robust employee value proposition, which includes our location-flexible philosophy, a collaborative global work environment, and a shared sense of purpose. Our focus on retaining talent is rooted in our employee-first strategy and includes investments in employee engagement, diverse talent sourcing tools, talent management systems, and development. We continue to make appropriate adjustments to help ensure competitive compensation, including the implementation of a pay transparency initiative designed to ensure equity and fairness. Available Information Our website is located athttps://partech.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports and statements filed or furnished by us pursuant to the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website at https://partech.com/investor-relations/as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters and Code of Conduct are also available, free of charge, at https://partech.com/investor-relations/. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including PAR. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only risks or uncertainties we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and stock price. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We face extensive competition in our markets, and our failure to compete effectively could result in decreased demand for our products and services and/or price reductions, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, fluid and evolving industry practices, disruptive technology developments (including the use and integration of AI into products and service offerings), and frequent new product introductions; any one of these factors, could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect sales to our existing customers, as well as our ability to attract and sell to new customers. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies (including AI), quickly respond to customer requirements, and rapidly and effectively introduce new and innovative products, features, and functions, while maintaining the integrity, quality, and competitiveness of our existing products and services. If we fail in these efforts, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer, and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability could be adversely impacted. Our failure to meet service level commitments or milestones under customer contracts may result in our customer contracts being less profitable, and expose us to liability and reputational harm. Our subscription services agreements typically include service level commitments or milestones. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we may be contractually obligated to pay penalties or provide service credits for a portion of the service fees paid by our customers. Customers also typically have the right to terminate their agreements and pursue damages claims for serious or repeated failures to meet service level commitments. These contractual commitments have, and may in the future, adversely impact our revenues, ARR, and gross margins earned on our subscription services. Moreover, our failure to meet our commitments could result in customer dissatisfaction, reputational harm, or the loss of customers, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party cloud and network infrastructure providers to deliver our subscription services, and any interruptions or delays in their services could harm our reputation and business. Our ability to deliver our subscription services in a timely, secure, and reliable manner to our customers depends on the protection of the information we store with our third-party cloud providers, as well as the maintenance of third-party network infrastructures. Interruptions or delays in these services, including those which may be caused by natural disasters or malicious actors, have, and may in the future, result in service disruptions, resulting in our failure to meet service level commitments or milestones, exposing us to liability, reputational damage, and potential loss of customers. We may also incur significant costs to use alternative providers or equipment to deliver our subscription services or taking other actions to mitigate any prolonged service disruptions. Any such alternatives could be more difficult or costly to replace than what we currently license, and integration of alternatives into our information technology system could require significant work and resources and delays. Our products might experience coding, configuration, or manufacturing errors, which could damage our reputation, deter current and potential customers from purchasing our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flows. Our products or product updates may contain coding, configuration or manufacturing errors that can negatively impact their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities, and expose us to product liability, performance issues, warranty claims, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Economic instability or regulatory or political conditions in the United States and in other countries and regions in which we, our customers, suppliers, and our other third-party providers conduct business, and the impact of such conditions or insecurities, including inflated costs of goods and muted or decreased consumer confidence and discretionary spending, could materially and adversely impact the cost and demand for our products and services, our ability to perform our contractual obligations, and execute our operational and growth strategies. Cost of products and components. Certain areas of our business could experience supply chain challenges, including shortages, shipping delays, and increased costs due to price increases for hardware products and components and in shipping costs; changes in U.S. and foreign trade policies, including new or increased tariffs, potential sanctions and counter-sanctions, particularly with or involving China, South Korea, and Taiwan could result in increased costs; however, we have taken steps to minimize the impact of these factors. We have expanded the regions where we sell our hardware products, and we continue to build our supplier network, including identifying and/or establishing alternative suppliers of our hardware products, increase our inventory levels of scarce components and adjust our pricing to reflect market conditions. Cost of labor and labor shortages. High labor costs have a direct negative impact on our results of operations and could negatively influence our customers investment choices, including whether and when to invest in our products and services. Additionally, fewer participants in the labor market may dampen businesses and consumers ability and desire to invest and spend, which could also negatively influence our customers investment choices. Any of the forgoing events could adversely impact our business, including our costs of sales and operating results. Changes in consumer confidence. The restaurant/retail industries depend on consumer discretionary spending. Our customers are impacted by consumer confidence, which is influenced, in part, by general economic conditions, which may negatively affect consumer discretionary spending. A material decline in consumer confidence could result in consumers dining out less, spending less on meals, or altering the source or mix of their purchasing choices, which could negatively impact our customers sales and, in turn, result in reduced, delayed, or cancelled orders (bookings) or a decrease in active sites, revenue, or annual recurring revenue (ARR) from our subscription services, or an increase in customer churn; or reduced, delayed or cancelled hardware sales and installations. Issues with product and component availability or supplier performance may affect our ability to assemble, repair, and deliver our hardware products and perform related services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on third-party suppliers to deliver hardware products and components in sufficient quantities, at reasonable prices, and timely so that we can timely deliver and install our hardware products and perform our Advanced Exchange, depot repair and field services. We have agreements for the supply of hardware products and components, including long-term or volume-based purchase agreements with some suppliers. We have alternative sources in the event one or more of our component suppliers are not able to perform or fully perform; and we hold safety stocks of single source hardware products in quantities that we believe are sufficient to protect against possible supply chain disruptions; however, we cannot assure that hardware products and components will be available or available in needed quantities and quality or at favorable or competitive prices. If we experience a problem (availability, quantity, quality, or pricing) with one or more of our suppliers, and we are not able to cover or adequately cover from other sources, it could lead to a shortage of hardware products and components and extended lead times for the delivery and installation of our hardware products or adversely affect our performance of Advanced Exchange, depot repair and field services, which could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely meet our contractual and customer obligations. This could result in reduced sales, breach or termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, in some instances, we are dependent on single-source suppliers for our hardware products, which may subject us to other significant risks, including inadequate inventory, higher prices, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Most of our suppliers of hardware products and components are located internationally, including in South Korea, China, and Taiwan, and are susceptible to hostilities in those regions and tariffs and other restrictions on trade between the United States and countries where our hardware products and components are sourced, which could increase the cost or restrict the availability of hardware products and components to us that we may not be able to offset or cover from another source. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers could decide to discontinue business with us or limit the allocation of hardware products and components to us, which could result in our 11 Table of Contents inability to fill our supply needs, jeopardizing our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations, which could in turn, result in a decrease in sales and cash flows, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships and our reputation. While we have been able to secure favorable terms from most of our suppliers, this is not the case with all of our suppliers. Unfavorable pricing, quantity, and delivery terms negatively impact our gross margins associated with hardware sales and Advanced Exchange, depot repair, and field services. To offset increased costs, we have and may in the future increase the prices of our hardware products and installation, repair, and field services. These price increases could make us less competitive, result in reduced sales, and loss of potential new customers, and cause damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Inventory management is an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of hardware product and component inventory availability and shortages and customer requirements. We hold safety stocks of single source hardware products in quantities that we believe are sufficient to protect against possible supply chain disruptions and, in some instances, increase our inventory levels of components to satisfy anticipated customer requirements. Higher inventory levels can lead to increased costs for hardware products and components, higher inventory expenses, and lower gross margins, potentially necessitating the write-down of excess inventory. Effective inventory management is crucial, and failure to maintain optimal inventory levels could negatively impact our financial condition, operational results, and ability to achieve and sustain profitability. If we are unable to recruit, develop, and retain skilled employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely harmed. Our ability to successfully execute our operational plans and growth strategies, achieve our business and/or development objectives, or increase the scope or range of our service or product offerings is dependent, in part, on our ability to attract, develop, and retain skilled employees, including data security and product architects, engineers and technical personnel and sales representatives. Competition for top talent in the restaurant/retail and technology industries is intense. If we cannot effectively recruit, develop, and retain qualified employees to drive our operational and strategic goals and develop and convert opportunities our business could suffer. Our ability to recruit, develop, and retain necessary qualified employees depends on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, flexibility regarding virtual and hybrid work arrangements, work location, work environment, and corporate culture. Acquisitions are an element of our growth strategy, which subjects us to risks commonly associated with acquisition transactions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect to continue to expand our business through acquisitions of complementary companies, products, and technologies. Acquisition transactions are subject to risks including: the diversion of our managements time and focus from operating PARs business; difficulties in obtaining required regulatory or stakeholder approvals; equity or debt financing transactions to finance an acquisition, including potential dilution from the issuance of our capital stock or the incurrence of additional debt or the failure to obtain satisfactory financing terms; the failure of our due diligence to identify significant issues associated with or arising out of an acquisition transaction, including issues related to the acquisition target (such as quality of product or technology and financial reporting, accounting practices, and internal controls) or country specific laws and regulations; our inability to fully realize the expected financial or strategic benefits of an acquisition transaction including within the timeframe we expected; unforeseen costs, cost overruns, or unanticipated investments; failure to successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business, product, or technology; employee retention costs and expenses, including compensation and benefit costs and retention payments to executive officers and key employees; difficulties coordinating and managing geographically separate organizations, and with foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to comply with country specific laws and regulations; difficulties entering geographic markets or new market segments in which we have no or limited experience; cybersecurity and data security and protection related considerations, controls and exposures; 12 Table of Contents inability to retain customers and suppliers of the acquired business, and on terms similar to, or better than, those in place with the acquired business; assumed and unknown liabilities; and failure to maintain our internal controls and systems. If we fail to realize expected benefits or synergies from our acquisitions, such as cost-savings and earnings accretion, or if we decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash to finance acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions or incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with our acquisitions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our international operations subject us to local laws and regulatory regimes, geopolitical or economic changes or events, uncertainties and other factors that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, 12.5%, 8.5%, and 7.5%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues were derived from sales outside of the United States. Our business, financial condition, and operations could suffer due to a variety of international risks including: compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the United Kingdom's Data Protection Act (the "UK-GDPR") and similar laws and regulations governing data privacy and data protection, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws, and other regulatory or contractual limitations governing our operations and sale of products and services in foreign jurisdictions, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations, including fines, penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation; compliance with the EU AI Act and similar laws and regulations of other foreign jurisdictions governing the development, adoption, and use of AI, which could result in significant additional costs or result in fines or other penalties for failing to comply; geopolitical events, such the Russia-Ukraine war, tensions with China and between China and Taiwan, hostilities in the Middle East, including the Israel conflict(s), and uncertainty relating to new or increased tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by the U.S. or retaliatory trade measures or tariffs implemented by other countries, which could result in reduced economic activity, increased costs in operating our business, or other potentially adverse economic outcomes; compliance by international employees with accounting practices generally accepted in the United States, including adherence to our accounting policies and internal controls; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; increased risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; reduced protection of our intellectual property rights in certain countries and practical difficulties and costs of enforcing those rights abroad; difficulties in managing international employees and exposure to different employment practices and local labor conditions and regulations, including labor issues faced by suppliers or immigration and labor laws which may adversely impact our access to technical and senior management; compliance with the laws of numerous foreign taxing jurisdictions and overlapping of different tax regimes; sales and customer service challenges associated with operating in different countries; difficulties in receiving payments from different geographies, including difficulties associated with currency fluctuations, payment cycles, transfer of funds, or collecting accounts receivable; and increased management, travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with having international operations. The risks described above could increase the cost of doing business internationally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, our international employees, including our employees located in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, India, and Serbia, and third-party consultants, including consultants located in Germany, Poland, and Ukraine, provide software development and support services. A sustained loss of the software development services provided by our international employees and third-party consultants could negatively impact our software development efforts, adversely affect our competitive position, harm our reputation, impede our ability to achieve and sustain profitability, and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Natural disasters, pandemics, or other natural or manmade disasters or outbreaks could negatively impact our business and operations. Our business is susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by flooding, hurricanes, earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters any one of which could have an adverse impact in countries or regions in which we conduct our business or offer and sell our services and products or our customers conduct their businesses and, in turn, decrease the demand for our services or products. Such events could also cause delays or disruptions in access to our subscription services or third-party providers software and systems; cause supply chain disruptions, resulting in shortages or delays in shipments of hardware products and components; create health and safety risks to our employees and distract employee productivity; and result in changes in consumer spending choices and customer investment decisions, any one of which could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, we may be subject to climate-related regulations and reporting requirements and changing market dynamics and stakeholder expectations regarding climate change and any impact our operations have or may have on the environment, all of which may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Cyber Security, Data Privacy, and Intellectual Property Our cloud applications and information technology systems or those of our service providers could be subject to cyberattacks or other security incidents, which could result in operational disruptions, costly governmental investigations or litigation and other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We experience cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our cloud applications and information technology systems on a regular basis, and we anticipate that we will continue to be subject to such attempts as we continue to expand the products and services we offer to customers. Despite our cybersecurity program and the technical and organizational security measures we use to detect and prevent unauthorized access and usage, our cloud applications and information technology systems, and the third-party cloud computing platforms on which our cloud applications and data are stored or processed, are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, distributed denial of services attacks, malware, social engineering, credential-based attacks, supply chain attacks and other attacks which may result in unauthorized access by malicious actors, including nation-states and their agents. Such events have caused, and in the future could result in, the disruption of access to or the interruption of the operation of our cloud applications and information technology systems, or the cloud computing platforms and cloud applications of our third-party providers. Even though prior events did not have a material adverse effect on our cloud applications and information technology systems or the cloud computing platforms and cloud applications of our third-party providers/integrators and our operations, there can be no guarantee that the same will be the case in the future. Cyber-attacks have become increasingly more sophisticated, frequent, and difficult to predict and protect against. In particular, the shift to a widespread remote working environment, including additional remote development teams, and the addition of new infrastructures, as well as the emergence and maturation of AI capabilities, increases the opportunities available to malicious actors, and, as such, increases the risk of a cyber-attack potentially occurring which may result in the disruption of access to or the interruption of the operation of our cloud applications and information technology systems, or the cloud computing platforms and cloud applications of our third-party providers/integrators. A material failure or disruption in our operations due to such an attack could result in unauthorized access, data loss, misappropriation of information, interruption of systems availability or denial of access to applications or information required by our customers to conduct their businesses, which in turn could result in costly governmental investigations and litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Security defects and vulnerabilities in our cloud applications and information technology systems or those of our service providers, integrators, and customers could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation, or otherwise materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our cloud applications and information technology systems and those of our third-party service providers/integrators and customers are inherently subject to security defects and vulnerabilities due to the release of new technologies and new techniques developed by malicious actors. If the manner and timing of how we fix identified security defects and vulnerabilities to our cloud applications and information technology systems is wrong or the manner and timing of how our third-party service providers/integrators, or third-party network providers fix defects and vulnerabilities in their cloud applications and information technology systems is wrong, or our customers do not implement or timely implement security updates or version upgrades provided by us or our third-party service 14 Table of Contents providers\integrators, then our and our third-party service providers\integrators cloud applications and information technology systems, and the information technology systems of our customers may be left vulnerable to delays and disruptions to access, which may result in our customers being unable to conduct their businesses. Unchecked security defects or vulnerabilities, may result in a material failure of our or our third-party providers\integrators cloud applications and information technology systems, substantial service disruptions, unauthorized access or denial of access, data loss or misappropriation of information, which in turn could result in breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, governmental investigations and penalties, and reputational damage, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with data privacy or data protection laws and regulations could subject us to significant penalties and legal liability, harm our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Global data privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance environment and the potential for significant liability in the event of a data incident. We are subject to data privacy and data protection laws and regulations (including AI laws and regulations) in the United States and abroad, some of which place restrictions on our ability to process personal data across our business. For example: various state data privacy and data protection laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act ("BIPA"), the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, the Colorado Privacy Act, the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, Connecticuts Act Concerning Personal Information Privacy and Online Monitoring, the New York SHIELD Act, and the regulations implementing these laws, establish data privacy rights to their respective residents (including in California, where residents have a private right of action for violations of the CCPA and CPRA) and regulate how we may collect, use, process and store personal data. the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and the United Kingdoms Data Protection Act 2018 ("UK-GDPR"), impose requirements relating to the processing of personal data, the information provided to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data, the security, confidentiality, minimization, and retention of personal data, notifications in the event of personal data breaches and the use of third-party processors. The GDPR and the UK GDPR impose substantial fines for breaches of data protection requirements, which can be up to four percent of annual worldwide revenues or 20 million Euros, whichever is greater. These laws and regulations are evolving and the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain; nevertheless, our failure or perceived failure to adequately address data privacy and data protection concerns, or to comply with applicable laws and regulations could damage our reputation, discourage current or potential customers from using our products and services, and result in costly governmental investigations, enforcement actions or litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, additional insurance costs, complaints by private individuals, and/or the payment of penalties to consumers or governmental entities, which could have a material and adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and materially and adversely harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that our products and services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties; however, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and services, or that any such assertions will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or settlement agreements, or result in costly litigation or in our being unable to use certain intellectual property. Infringement assertions from third parties may involve patent holding companies or non-practicing entities or other patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our viable and supportable defenses may provide little or no deterrence to these entities or patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. There are risks related to our information technology systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are in the process of combining our customer relationship management (CRM) and enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems into a single pre-existing CRM and ERP system, both of which are intended to improve the 15 Table of Contents efficiency and effectiveness of our operations by streamlining information flow. The implementation processes are complex and time-consuming and are subject to project delays, integration risks, data conversion risks, and risks associated with the efficient and effective adoption of these systems by employees and customers. These risks could result in operational inefficiencies that materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows due to: unforeseen and unbudgeted costs; reduced, delayed, or cancelled orders (bookings) for our subscription services, a decrease in sites actively using our subscription services or a decrease in subscription service revenue or annualized recurring revenue (ARR) from our subscription services, or an increase in customer churn; reduced, delayed, or cancelled hardware sales and installations; and customer payment delays. Furthermore, the implementation processes of these systems may create change management risks that require effective internal controls to mitigate. Our failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results. Our use of AI could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use AI technologies in our product development, our internal operations, and the products and services we offer, and we intend to further expand our AI use and capabilities to remain competitive; however, ineffective or deficient AI practices by us or third parties could lead to bias or inaccurate information and decision-making, misuse or infringement of intellectual property rights, or operational inefficiencies; moreover, AI technologies can lead to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information. Ensuring the integrity and security of AI tools and usage may require significant investment, potentially impacting our gross margins; however, if we fail to properly address these issues our reputation could be harmed and the demand for our products or services reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The legal and regulatory landscape surrounding AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain, with jurisdictions around the world applying, or considering applying, laws and regulations related to intellectual property, cybersecurity, export controls, privacy, data security, and data protection to AI, or general legal frameworks on AI, such as the Colorado AI Act, which begins to apply in 2026, or the EU AI Act, parts of which apply beginning in 2025. These laws and regulations are evolving and the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain; nevertheless, our failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, industry standards or ethical requirements and expectations relating to AI could damage our reputation, discourage current or potential customers from using our products and services, and result in costly governmental investigations, enforcement actions or litigation, breach of contract claims, indemnity obligations, additional insurance costs, and/or penalties, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, the public may perceive AI negatively, associating it with job displacement and privacy and ethical concerns. This perception could harm our reputation, lead to reduced demand for our products or services or harm our ability to obtain favorable pricing or other terms for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Related Risks We may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We have incurred operating losses in each of the last several years, including for the year ended December 31, 2024. For us to achieve and sustain profitability, we must operate our business consistent with our capital allocation strategy, which focuses on the allocation of our capital to revenue generating activities, while controlling expenses. We cannot assure that we will be successful in achieving or sustaining profitability in the future, among other things: our investments in new products and new features for our existing products, may require more investment than planned or our new products or new features may not achieve the expected commercial success and generate additional revenue or advance the growth of our business; we may not realize the anticipated revenue contributions or operational synergies of our acquired businesses or achieve our targeted growth rates or improve our market share; and 16 Table of Contents we may not be able to control expenses at the levels planned due to internal and external factors, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, inflationary pressures, and geopolitical events, many of which are beyond our control. If we fail to achieve and sustain profitability, our financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted and the market price of our common stock could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2024, one customer accounts for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of this customer's purchase of hardware, subscription services, and professional services, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of purchases of hardware, subscription services, and professional services by this customer, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Aggregate sales of hardware, subscription services, and professional services to the one customer and their respective franchisees constituted 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024. Significant reductions, delays or cancellations of hardware sales, subscription services, and professional services to this customer and its franchisees would reduce our revenue and operating income and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our operating subsidiaries to pay our debt, which may seriously harm our business. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our 2.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes), our 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes), and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2030 (the "2030 Notes", and together with the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes, the "Senior Notes"), depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our operating subsidiaries may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt because of factors beyond our control. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to raise funds through debt or equity issuances, refinance our indebtedness and otherwise access the credit and capital markets at the times and in the amounts needed and on acceptable terms will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to plan and react to changes in our business and our industries; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital, and for other general corporate purposes. A conversion of the Senior Notes, or a fundamental change under the Senior Notes, if triggered, may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the Senior Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Senior Notes in cash. Furthermore, upon conversion of any Senior Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle the conversion (excluding cash in lieu of delivering fractional shares of our common stock), we must make cash payments in respect of the Senior Notes. Even if holders do not elect to convert their Senior Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Senior Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Any of the cash payments described above could be significant, and if we fail to repurchase the Senior Notes when required or deliver the consideration due upon conversion, we will be in default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes. In such an event of default, holders of the Senior Notes with the defaulted indebtedness could elect to declare all principal, together with accrued and unpaid interest, due and payable, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. For example, we make significant estimates and assumptions when accounting for revenue recognition, the recognition and measurement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations at fair value, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, valuation allowances for receivables, and valuation of excess and obsolete inventories. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which are subject to a periodic impairment analysis. A significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. Our goodwill was approximately $887.5 million at December 31, 2024 and our intangibles were $237.3 million at December 31, 2024. Identifiable intangible assets are primarily a result of business acquisitions and internally developed capitalized software. We test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate possible impairment. We describe the impairment testing process and results of this testing more thoroughly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Our estimates are subject to uncertainties. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in "Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "Part II,