Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities law. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Corporate Information PAR Technology Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiaries - ParTech, Inc. (ParTech) and PAR Government Systems Corporation (Par Government) operates in two distinct reporting segments, Restaurant/Retail and Government. Our Restaurant/Retail segment provides point-of-sale (POS) software, hardware, back-office software and integrated technical solutions to the restaurant and retail industries. Our Government segment provides intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance solutions (ISR) and mission systems support to the Department of Defense (DoD) and other Federal agencies. We derived approximately 66.7% of our total consolidated revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. In this Annual Report, the terms PAR, the Company, we, us, and our refer to PAR Technology Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Restaurant/Retail Segment We are a leading provider of POS software, systems, and services to the restaurant and retail industries. Our promise is to deliver the solutions that connect people to the restaurants, meals, and moments they love. We provide multi-unit and individual restaurants, franchisees, and enterprise customers in the three major restaurant categories: fast casual, quick serve, and table service, a fully integrated cloud solution, with our leading Brink POS cloud software and our point-of-sale hardware platforms for the front-of-house, our leading back-office cloud software - Data Central - for the back-of-house, and our wireless headsets for drive-thru order taking. 2 Table of Contents Products Point-of-Sale Software . Brink POS is an open solution offering customers the opportunity to integrate with third party products and in-house systems. In support of our customers need to quickly adapt to changing market conditions, we claim the largest integration ecosystem 200+ partners across various product solution categories including: mobile/online ordering, self-ordering kiosks, loyalty programs, kitchen video systems, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, and other solutions relevant to our customers businesses, including our cloud-based back-office solution - Data Central. These integration capabilities enables restaurants to increase visits, customer check size, improve operational efficiency, and most importantly, position them to win in an ever changing and challenging market. As of December 31, 2020, Brink POS had an installed base of 11,722 restaurants, compared to a Brink POS installed base of 9,799 restaurants as of December 31, 2019. PixelPoint offers an on-premise integrated software solution that includes a POS software application, a self-service ordering function, back-office management, and an enterprise level loyalty and gift card information sharing application. The PixelPoint solution is primarily sold to quick serve restaurants and independent table service restaurants through channel partners. PAR Payment Services, our merchant services offering, which we released in the third quarter of 2020, provides restaurants with card payment processing capabilities, which we service and support. Our entry point into the payments ecosystem - PAR Pay - an EMV payments solution, was introduced in 2018; since its launch, our customers have processed approximately $1.1 billion in sales and 68 million transactions. Consistent with our bold open approach, both PAR Payment Services and PAR Pay offers restaurants various choices including payment devices, gift card programs, and payment processors. Back-office SaaS Software . Data Central, a cloud software platform of back-office applications, leverages business intelligence and automation technologies to decrease food costs, manage labor and improve overall customer service. Data Central provides restaurants with the necessary tools to achieve peak operational and financial efficiency; it serves as the central hub of restaurant intelligence by collecting information from POS, inventory, supply, payroll and accounting systems to provide a comprehensive view of a restaurants operations. Data Central is mobile-friendly, providing browser level access to all store level functions. POS Hardware. PAR EverServ POS platforms are designed to reliably operate in harsh environments associated with food service. PAR EverServ platforms are durable and highly functioning, scalable, and easily integratedoffering customers competitive performance at a cost-conscious price. Our hardware platforms are compatible with popular third-party operating systems, support a distributed processing environment and are suitable for a broad range of use and functions within the markets served. Our open architecture POS platforms are optimized to host our POS software applications, as well as many third-party POS software applications, and are compatible with a variety of peripheral devices. We partner with numerous vendors that offer complementary in-store peripherals, such as cash drawers, card readers, printers, and kitchen video systems, allowing us to deliver a completely integrated solution through one vendor. Our hardware platform offerings are primarily comprised of three POS product lines: EverServ 600 Series, built with the rugged durability PAR is known for and is a value platform for operators that require reduced functionality. Its small ergonomic footprint is ideal for restaurants where space is at a premium. Its solid design is quiet, offers low power consumption, and minimizes maintenance; EverServ 8000 Series, designed and developed with Intel processor technology, boasts a modern design and, while it has one of the smallest footprints available in the market, it is built to operate in harsh environments and endure high customer traffic and transaction activities; and EverServ tablets, designed to operate in rugged environments and features handheld functionality with extended battery life. Our EverServ mobility family of hardware platforms also include a variety of docking and charging stations, the ability to use magnetic credit and debit cards associated with payment systems, hand and shoulder straps and holsters to support the variety of product applications. Wireless Communications, Drive-Thru Systems . For drive-thru operations our primary solution is the G5 wireless headset. The G5s unique modular design allows for easy in-field replacement of damaged components by the restaurant staff, allowing them to minimize downtime in the drive thru. The G5 is of particular relevance during the COVID-19 pandemic as it provides our customers with another means to deliver their products and serve their customers, even in these most uncertain times. Services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of services to support our customers technology and hardware requirements before, during and after software and/or hardware deployments. We offer complete application training to our customers in-store staff and provide technical training to our customers information systems personnel. We provide customers with installation, technical and life-cycle support for our products through support services, license and/or subscription agreements. We also offer depot repair and overnight Advanced Exchange services from our offices in San Diego, California, Mississauga, Ontario, and our corporate headquarters in New Hartford, New York. In North America, we offer 24-hour help desk support from our diagnostic service centers located in New Hartford, New York and Tampa, Florida, and on-site support through our field tech service network, which services the continental United States. Outside of the continental U.S., we similarly support our products by providing call center, installation, on-site, and/or depot repair services to our customers 3 Table of Contents depending upon a customers geographic location. These services are delivered to our customers directly by us and by authorized third parties. We believe our software, hardware and integrated solutions uniquely position us to be a leader in assisting customers to innovate and improve their in-store operations in a rapidly changing and challenging market, particularly in light of the continued impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the restaurant industry. Our continued success and growth will depend upon our ability to advance and create new technology, products and services to meet customer demands, as well as deploy capital and resources that uniquely deliver customer value. This includes the development and introduction of new products and services, targeted acquisitions and a constant review of internal spend. Sales, Marketing and Distribution In the U.S., we market and sell our products through our dedicated sales teams and channel partners, which directly interface with our tier 1 customers (owner and/or operator of 2,000 or more sites), tier 2 customers (owner and/or operator of 500-2,000 sites), tier 3 customers (owner and/or operator of 5-500 sites) and tier 4 customers (owner and/or operator of 1-4 sites). Our international direct sales teams and channel partners market and sell our products and services to tier 1 customers outside of the U.S., as well as local/regional customers from in-country offices. Our products are also offered and sold through sales representatives, who enlist and support well-regarded value-added resellers serving multi-unit operators, the independent restaurant category, and the non-food service markets such as retail and convenience stores, amusement parks, movie theaters, cruise lines, spas, and other ticketing and entertainment venues. PAR has developed and nurtured long-term relationships with several of the largest brands in the Restaurant/Retail segment, including McDonalds Corporation and Yum! Brands, Inc. PAR has been an approved provider of restaurant technology systems and related support services to McDonalds and their franchisees since 1980, and an approved supplier to Yum! Brands since 1983. Other significant restaurant chains that use PAR POS products and related services include Dairy Queen, Arby's, the Hardees and Carls Jr. units of CKE Restaurants, Inc., and franchisees of these organizations. Competition Our software and hardware product offerings face stiff competition in the highly competitive and rapidly evolving restaurant and retail markets. Most of our significant customers have several approved suppliers of software and/or hardware similar to one or more of our products. We compete in these markets directly with product offerings from Oracle Corporation, NCR Corporation and others. We compete on the basis of product delivery (cloud versus traditional on-premise software applications), existing and planned product design, features and functionality, software application and integration capabilities, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price, and customer service. Our competitive advantages include our open solutions offerings, including our cloud-based software (SaaS delivery model), on-premise software, ergonomic purpose-built hardware, advanced development capabilities, extensive domain knowledge and expertise, excellent product reliability, a customer-dedicated direct sales force organization, and world class responsive customer service and support. As relevant technologies evolve and customer demands and expectations increase, so do the competitive pressures in the market, with new companies entering and existing companies expanding their product and service portfolios. We expect competition in the restaurant market to continue to increase, including competition from both cloud and traditional on-premise POS software, back-office software, hardware providers and other business software and solution providers. With many of our product and service offerings, we face competition from companies who have access to significantly more financial and technical resources than we possess. Research and Development Continuous product research, innovation, and product development are an integral part of our business. We continuously evaluate customer needs and new technologies to enable us to develop innovative and relevant products, in addition to creating enhancements to our existing products that improve and/or add to their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilitiesfrom leveraging the latest innovations in cloud computing to wireless headsets and other devices to advances in internet performance. Research and development expenses were $19.3 million , $13.4 million, and $12.4 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018 respectively. Manufacturing and Suppliers We assemble our ES 8000 series platforms internally in the U.S. We source other hardware products and related materials, product assemblies, and components from third parties. Although we purchase most of the materials, product sub-assemblies and full assemblies from several suppliers, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our assembly components and hardware products. As a result, we periodically review and evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations in the 4 Table of Contents event one or more of our suppliers should fail to perform. See Risk Factors for a discussion on risks related to our supply chain operations. Government Segment PARs Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the DoD and other Federal agencies, as well as satellite, communication and IT mission systems support at a number of U.S. Government facilities both in the U.S. and worldwide. The Government segment is focused on two principal offerings, intelligence solutions and mission systems contract support, with additional revenue from a small number of licensed software products for use in analytic and operational environments that leverage geospatial intelligence data. Intelligence Solutions Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR). We provide a variety of intelligence analysis, systems integration, and situational awareness solutions for mobile and data center offerings. Our substantive, in-depth expertise in these domains enables us to provide our government customers and large systems integrators with key technologies to support a variety of applications ranging from strategic enterprise systems to tactical in-the-field dismounted users. Additionally, we have developed a number of solutions relative to these advanced technologies and we provide integration and training support with respect to these solutions. ISR provides systems engineering support and software-based solutions to the DoD research and development laboratories, intelligence customers, and operational commands. Our internal expertise ranges from theoretical and experimental studies to development and fielding of operational capabilities. Our employees are: experienced developers and subject-matter experts in the DoD full motion video; developers of geospatial and imagery data management, visualization, and exploitation solutions; designers and developers of very large-scale data science and multi-media analysis systems; leading the development of technologies to train and test artificial intelligence systems; designers of mobile computing applications for Android, iOS, and Windows; architects of solutions for privacy, compliance and governance for sensitive customer data; and developers of geospatial information system solutions. We are actively engaged in the development of mobility applications that support the needs of mobile teams with real-time situational awareness and distributed communications. ISR has a strong legacy in the advanced research, development, and productization of geospatial information assurance technology involving steganography, steganography analysis, digital watermarking, and digital media forensics. These enabling technologies have been used to provide increased protection and security of geospatial data. ISR also provides scientific and technical support to the U.S. intelligence community. Systems Engineering and Evaluation. We integrate and test a broad range of government and industry research and development solutions. We design, integrate, and operate antenna data collection solutions for experimentation, demonstration, and test support. We also provide technical engineering and analysis services to intelligence community customers, supporting development and deployment of advanced prototypes and quick reaction systems, including applications for high performance computing platforms (e.g., Cray exascale computers). Mission Systems Satellite and Telecommunications Support. We provide a wide range of technical and support services to sustain mission critical components of the Department of Defense Information Network (DoDIN). These services include continuous 24/7/365 satellite and teleport facility operations and maintenance, engineering and installation services including inside and outside plant services, and maintenance of infrastructure and information systems for very low frequency, low frequency, high frequency, very high frequency and ground-based radio transmitter/receiver facilities, including high tower antennas up to 1200 feet. We operate and maintain satellite communications and teleport facilities with ultra-high frequency, super high frequency and extremely high frequency satellite communication earth terminals, and support telecommunications architectures such as fixed submarine broadcast systems and high-frequency global communications systems. The DoD communications earth stations operated by PAR Government are the primary communications systems utilized by the national command authority and military services to exercise command and control of the nations air, land, and naval forces and to provide support to allied coalition forces. Space and Satellite Support Services . We support globally-deployed operational forces by providing reliable 24/7/365 support services for a variety of DoD satellite communication systems. We provide satellite control center operations and mission planning for DoD Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance operations. 5 Table of Contents We provide satellite ground system support, including operations and maintenance, sustainment, upgrades, communications security management, anomaly response/resolution, process improvement, emergency response and disaster recovery. Our experience also includes mission planning and operations training. Information Systems Support . We provide comprehensive, dependable, and secure information systems support services to the DoD and other federal agencies. These services include information technology infrastructure library based, tier 0 to 3 service desk operations for thousands of enterprise users, network system administration, database administration, information assurance/system security, information security training, and SIPRNet and NIPRNet management. We also perform maintenance, auditing, monitoring, upgrades, planning, testing, and integration and configuration services, to include security systems including intrusion detection systems. The mission systems group supports critical information systems which operate elements of the DoDIN to support the National Command Authority (President and Joint Chiefs of Staff), DoD, and other government agencies. Our system troubleshooting and regulatory experts support the customer mission around the globe. Approximately 60% of our footprint is outside the continental U.S. with contracts in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories in the Pacific and Caribbean. PAR Government has strong and enduring relationships with a diverse set of customers throughout the U.S. DoD and Federal government. Our track record of delivering mission critical services to government customers spans decades, and includes contracts continuing 20 years or more, with an average contract duration of three to five years. We work closely with our customers, with many of our mission system employees co-located at customer sites. Our strong relationships and on-site presence with our customers enables PAR Government to develop substantive customer and technical domain knowledge, translate mission understanding into exemplary program execution, and create continued demand for PAR Governments services. Products Division PAR Governments software product business draws on decades of research and development (R&D), image processing and geospatial information system (GIS) experience. Licensable products focus on serving analysts and operators who seek highly accurate and timely information with both temporal and geospatial context. Product utility spans the modern battlefield from rear echelon analyst cell to the field Operations Center to the mobile devices and displays carried by infantryman at the very forward edge of a battlespace. Currently we offer two types of software products. The geospatial visualization (GV) image processing suite is used by the international defense and intelligence community to analyze still and video imagery. A second product line provides situational awareness solutions used by government and private organizations to manage rapid response teams or deployed field units. Customers include global geospatial software providers, NATO partners, public safety organizations, and the U.S. senior intelligence agencies. Marketing and Competition We obtain contracts through a mix of competitive proposals and technical paper submissions in response to solicitations from government organizations and prime contractors. In addition, PAR Government often obtains contracts by submitting unsolicited proposals against publicly identified government requirements which can then be selected on merit for further development and funding. Although well positioned in our business areas, competition for government contracts is intense. Many of our competitors are large corporations that have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. Within our intel solutions portfolio we compete based on the technical talent and accomplishments of our development staff, software support and program management teams who have earned a reputation for rapid solutioning, leading edge software solutions and technical talent with high security clearance and the background and appetite to tackle truly difficult problems. In our mission systems contract portfolio, we also compete with many smaller, economically disadvantaged companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential set aside treatment that target segments of the government contract market. Here the principal competitive factors are past performance, the ability to perform the statement of work, price, technological capabilities, management capabilities, and service. Many of our DoD customers are migrating to price sensitive, best value procurements while leveraging commercial software standards, applications, and solutions. Our strategy is to build upon our Government segment's sustained performance on existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and to secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. DoD and other Federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. DoD and other Federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies 6 Table of Contents (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for our Government segment. Backlog The value of existing PAR Government contracts at December 31, 2020, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $150.5 million, of which $27.8 million was funded. The value of existing PAR Government contracts at December 31, 2019, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $148.7 million, of which $32.8 million was funded. Funded amounts represent those amounts committed under contract by government agencies and prime contractors. Of the December 31, 2020 PAR Government contract backlog of $150.5 million, approximately $74.0 million is expected to be completed in calendar year 2021. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and continues to cause significant disruption to the U.S. and global economies, including the impact of government and company actions to reduce the spread of the virus and consumer behavior in response to the same; and, although the United States and other countries have begun to roll out vaccinations, it is uncertain how quickly and effectively such vaccinations will be distributed or help to control the spread of COVID-19 and its variants. Early on in the COVID-19 pandemic, we took a number of actions to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on our employees and business. We implemented temporary cost saving measures, which resulted in over $10 million of savings to our 2020 operating plan, and we introduced new product offerings to promote social distancing, offered subscription discounts and deferred payment arrangements to customers and continued to invest in our software products. While our 2020 reported revenues increased year-over-year despite the COVID-19 pandemic and the pandemic did not have a material adverse impact on our Government business in 2020, we cannot know the extent COVID-19 actually impacted our business, results of operations, and financial condition in 2020; and the ultimate extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business, results of operations and financial condition is uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. See Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to actively manage our business to respond to the uncertainties and risks created by the pandemic throughout its duration, including evaluating our remote working plans on a regular basis and monitoring the health, safety, morale, and productivity of our employees. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of digitizing the modern restaurant, and we believe that our cloud solutions, hardware offerings and services uniquely positions us to be a leader in digital technology offerings to restaurants. We will continue to invest in product offerings and solutions to meet the digital needs of our customers by offering transformative technologies. Intellectual Property and Other Rights A number of our products and components are developed and designed based on our existing copyrighted work and/or patents issued. Our other products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary information through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, and registered and common law trademarks, that protect our brand associations and symbolize our goodwill, as well as copyrights that relate to internally-developed software and various distinctive characteristics of our products. We also rely on a combination of confidentiality and assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees and consultants, and enter into confidentiality and licensing agreements with customers and parties with whom we have strategic relationships. We believe our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets have value, and we believe our use and reliance on the intellectual property laws of the U.S. and foreign countries, as well as our agreements and licenses, protect and maintain our rights in our intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts unauthorized third parties may attempt to use, copy, or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property and/or our other proprietary information; moreover, the rapidly changing technology in the Restaurant/Retail segment and the Government segment makes our future success dependent on the development skills, innovative designs, and technological expertise of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. Government Regulation Our operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to data protection and privacy, import and export controls, trade restrictions, anti-corruption and bribery, and employee and labor relations. Please see our disclosure in Risk Factors for more details regarding laws and regulations governing our business. 7 Table of Contents Human Capital As of December 31, 2020, we employed 1,008 full-time employees, including approximately 54.7% in our Restaurant/Retail segment, 39.6% in our Government segment (17.5% of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements), and 5.8% who are corporate employees. We also employed 45 part-time employees as of December 31, 2020. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our senior management team is responsible for developing and executing our human capital strategy. We seek employees who share a passion for technology and its ability to improve our customers businesses, and thrive in an environment that reflects our values of speed and accountability. Our goal is to hire the best people we can find, give them the responsibility and authority they deserve, and let them make the decisions on how to best execute. We try to design our employee compensation and benefits programs to hold us to our values, while meeting the needs of our employees. Our chief executive officer and chief human resources officer regularly update our board of directors on key areas of our human capital strategy, including the following: Diversity and Inclusion : We encourage our employees to embrace different ideas, strengths, interests and cultural backgrounds. We are committed to providing our employees with an environment free of discrimination, harassment and workplace violence. We make all benefit and employment-related decisions in compliance with established equal employment opportunity statutes and without regard to religion, national origin, age, gender, race, color, ancestry, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, citizenship, pregnancy, medical condition or any other protected class status, as defined by local, state or federal laws. We strongly believe in building a workforce that is diverse and that can build strong working relationships with our customers. Employee Engagement: We believe that our employees should have the opportunity to voice their concerns and suggestions. We conduct regular workforce engagement surveys to take the pulse of our employees and gather their insights. Being able to understand the needs, preferences and general feedback of our employees is critical to the design of our employee benefits programs. Health and Safety: The health and safety of our employees in the workplace are important to us. We regularly assess our facilities to ensure compliance with our health and safety guidelines and regulatory requirements. The importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy has been underscored by the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to the pandemic, we have taken, and will continue to take, actions in accordance with the guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect our employees so they can more safely and effectively perform their work, including limiting travel to essential-business only, implementing work-from-home policies and augmenting shifts for our production employees. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act (our SEC Filings) are available, free of charge, on our website at www.partech.com AboutInvestor Relations, SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the SEC website is https://www.sec.gov/. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those described below, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our common stock. Risks Associated with the COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect our business, operations, financial condition and financial results for the foreseeable future. In late March 2020, we began seeing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our Restaurant/Retail segment, and beginning the quarter ended June 30, 2020, we began to experience the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Since that time we have been actively managing our business to respond to the uncertainties and risks created by the COVID-19 pandemic and the continuously evolving science, government and consumer responses. Although countries, including the United States, have begun to roll out vaccinations, many countries are facing challenges in doing so and new variants of COVID-19 have been identified. It is uncertain how quickly and effectively such vaccinations will help to control the spread of COVID-19 and its variants. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business, operations, financial condition and financial results depends on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, 8 Table of Contents including the effectiveness of vaccinations against the new variants of COVID-19, the uncertainty around vaccine supply and distribution, the measures taken, or to be taken, by various governmental authorities in response to the ongoing pandemic (such as quarantines, capacity restrictions and limitations on travel), the duration and scope of the pandemic, including any recurrence, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions may resume. There can be no assurance that the COVID-19 pandemic will not continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, during any quarter or year in which we are affected. Risks Associated with the Operation of our Business We have incurred losses in each of the last several years, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses in each of the last several years, including the year ended December 31, 2020, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in our Restaurant/Retail segment. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving or sustaining profitability in the future. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to the timing of our revenue recognition and our ability to accurately forecast sales, including subscription software sales and renewals. As revenues from our cloud offerings increase, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software as a service (SaaS) offerings and our traditional on-premise software and hardware sales. The SaaS delivery model is subscription based; accordingly, SaaS revenues are generally recognized ratably over the life of the subscriptions. In contrast, revenue from our on-premise software and hardware sales is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery. Accordingly, the SaaS delivery model creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition not associated with our traditional on-premise delivery model. A portion of our SaaS revenue results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during prior reporting periods. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future reporting periods. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our SaaS business model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. Our products might experience coding or configuration errors, which could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from purchasing our products. Although we test our products and product updates prior to their release and throughout their intended life, our cloud and on-premise software and hardware products sometimes contain coding or configuration errors that can negatively impact their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities. Coding and configuration errors can expose us to product liability, performance issues, warranty claims, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our technical and maintenance support services are not satisfactory to our customers, they may not renew their services agreements or buy future products, which could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Our business relies on our customers satisfaction with the technical and maintenance support services we provide to support our products. If we fail to provide technical and maintenance support services that are responsive, satisfy our customers expectations, and timely resolve issues that they encounter with our products, then they may not purchase additional products or services from us in the future. Three customers account for a significant portion of our revenues in the Restaurant/Retail segment. The loss of one of these customers, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of purchases by one of these customers, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment constituted 66.7% of our total consolidated revenues for 2020. Aggregate sales to our three largest customers (which include sales to those three customers respective franchisees) constituted consolidated revenues for 2020 of 31.0%. Significant reductions, delays, or cancellation of orders by one of these customers, or the loss of one of these customers, would reduce our revenue and operating income and would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents There are risks related to our enterprise resource planning system (ERP). We continue to integrate components onto our ERP, which is intended to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial condition and operating results. Significant disruptions in the operation of our ERP could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial condition and operating results, or otherwise operate our business. Additionally, if the ERP does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. Issues with product and component availability or supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products. We depend on our suppliers to deliver hardware and related materials, product assemblies, and components in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with contract terms and applicable laws and regulations. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers for certain of our assembly components and hardware products. If certain materials, components or product assemblies are not available or if any of these suppliers otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, such risks being exacerbated as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may not have readily available alternative sources for such materials, components or product assemblies. While we have entered into long-term or volume purchase agreements with some suppliers, have increased safety stock inventory and the use of alternative sources when possible, and have taken other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components, and products, we cannot be sure that the materials, product assemblies or components will be available or in the needed quantities and quality or at favorable or competitive prices. If we experience a material supplier problem it could lead to a shortage of supplies and extended lead times for delivery, which could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations. We could also incur additional costs and delays in addressing this type of problem. This could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which are subject to a periodic impairment analysis. A significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. Our goodwill was approximately $41.2 million and $41.4 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, and our intangibles were $33.1 million and $32.9 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Identifiable intangible assets are primarily a result of business acquisitions and internally developed capitalized software. We test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate possible impairment. We describe the impairment testing process and results of this testing more thoroughly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Our estimates are subject to uncertainties including those associated with the COVID-19 pandemic; the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact these estimates is uncertain and cannot be predicted. Any of our estimates could be incorrect or misplaced, including our COVID-19 estimates. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report). If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled individuals with software development, engineering, and technical skills. Competition is intense in the skill-sets we require. If we grow quickly without recruiting adequate personnel, we may not be able to keep up with the needs of our customers and our restaurant/retail business, including our Brink POS business, and our reputation may be harmed. Moreover, many positions in our Government business require security clearances, which can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain, resulting in increased competition for such uniquely qualified individuals. Our failure to hire and retain qualified developers, engineers, and other technical and skilled employees to contribute to our business could adversely affect our ability to not only perform our current contract obligations, but to innovate and rapidly and effectively change and introduce new products and services, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We may be subject to claims by third-parties of intellectual property and/or proprietary rights infringement. Third parties may assert claims that our software, hardware platforms, or technology infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate their intellectual property or other proprietary rights. Third parties may also assert that our sale of certain products require the payment of license fees to them. Such claims may be made by our competitors seeking to obtain a competitive 10 Table of Contents advantage or by other parties, including existing licensors. The risk of claims may increase as the number of software productsin particular POS cloud software productsthat we offer, and competitors in our market increase and product technology and discovery overlaps occur. Any such claims, regardless of merit, resulting in litigation could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays in introducing new or enhanced services or technology, materially disrupt the conduct of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In September 2020, we were notified by one of our business partners of a claim for non-payment of royalties due under an existing license agreement; while we believe we have paid all royalties due, we have allocated resources to resolve this claim. Risks Associated with the Growth of our Business Our inability to identify and complete future acquisitions and/or integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have achieved growth organically and through acquisitions that complement and expand our operations. We may not be able to identify or successfully negotiate suitable future acquisitions, obtain financing on satisfactory terms, obtain required regulatory or stakeholder approvals, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future; moreover, we may not be able to realize expected benefits of any acquisitions on our business or financial performance. Our ability to achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions will depend on, among other things, our ability to effectively translate our strategies into revenue, our ability to retain and assimilate acquired business employees, our ability to retain existing customers and suppliers on terms similar to, or better than, those in place with the acquired business, our ability to attract new customers, the adequacy of our implementation plans, our ability to maintain our financial and internal controls and systems as we expand our operations, and our ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies. The integration of acquired businesses might also cause us to incur unforeseen costs or exceed our cost estimates, which could lower our future earnings and could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of acquisitions. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could result in decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results including, ultimately, a reduction in our stock price. We face extensive competition in our markets, and our failure to compete effectively could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services. The markets for our software and hardware products are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, evolving industry standards, disruptive technology developments, and frequent new product introductions. While we think our software and hardware products offer competitive, innovative features and functionality, any one of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect sales to our existing customers, as well as our ability to attract and sell to new customers. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies and to rapidly and effectively introduce new and innovative products, features, and functions; it also depends on our ability to effectively communicate with our customers and quickly respond to our customers requirements. If we fail in these efforts, our business, results of operations, and financial conditions could suffer. Any delay in the development, marketing, or launch of new products or enhancements to our existing products, or failure to effectively communicate or meet our customers requirements could result in reduced sales, performance penalties, or termination of contracts, and could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings, or stock price and weakening our competitive position. Part of our competitive strategy is to enter into new market segments and attract larger customers that operate in different Restaurant/Retail spaces, particularly in the table-service market. If we are not successful in penetrating markets that our competitors are already active in or in securing new customers, or if we lose current customers, our business, financial condition, and operating results may suffer. Our government contracting business has been focused on niche offerings reflecting our expertise, primarily in the areas of ISR, systems engineering and evaluation, satellite and telecommunications services, and management technology/systems services. Many of our competitors in the Government segment are larger and have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. We also compete with smaller companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential set aside treatment, that target particular segments of the government market and may have superior capabilities in a particular segment. These companies may be better positioned to obtain contracts through competitive proposals. Consequently, there are no assurances we will continue to win government contracts as a prime contractor or subcontractor, and our failure to do so would reduce our revenue and operating income and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with our Convertible Senior Notes and Indebtedness Servicing our debt may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operating subsidiaries to pay our debt. On February 10, 2020, we sold $120.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes). We received approximately $115.8 million of net proceeds from the sale of the 2026 Notes, and used a portion of the proceeds to repurchase $66.3 million of the $80.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 4.500% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 that we sold on April 15, 2019 (the 2024 Notes and together with the 2026 Notes, the Notes). As of March 10, 2021, we had $133.8 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding. Our ability to make scheduled payments on the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our debt, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to raise funds through additional financing, such as the issuance of equity or debt securities, refinancing our debt, and otherwise accessing the credit and capital markets at the times and in the amounts needed and on acceptable terms will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities on desirable terms or at all, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our operations. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay interest on the Notes, to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, or to settle conversions of the Notes in cash. We are obligated to pay interest on the Notes semi-annually in cash and, in certain circumstances, we are obligated to pay additional interest or special interest on the Notes. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes in cash. Furthermore, upon conversion of any Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle the conversion (excluding cash in lieu of delivering fractional shares of our common stock), we must make cash payments in respect of the Notes. Any of the cash payments described above could be significant, and we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing so that we can make such payments when due. If we fail to pay interest on the Notes, repurchase the Notes when required or deliver the consideration due upon conversion, we will be in default under both of the indentures governing the Notes, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our operations. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results . In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. Even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Certain provisions in the indentures governing the Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. For example, if a takeover would constitute a fundamental change, holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their Notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Notes and the indentures that govern the Notes could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us. The conversion of the Notes could result in dilution of ownership to existing stockholders . Holders of the 2024 Notes may elect to convert their Notes at any time on or after October 15, 2023 and holders of the 2026 Notes may elect to convert their Notes at any time on or after October 15, 2025 and, upon the occurrence of specified events, holders of the 2024 Notes may convert their Notes before October 15, 2023 and holders of the 2026 Notes may convert their Notes before October 15, 2025. We may satisfy our conversion obligation by paying or delivering cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion will result in dilution of ownership to existing stockholders. Settlement method for convertible debt securities could have a material effect on our reported financial results . In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) , which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options , 12 Table of Contents ASC 470-20. ASC 470-20 requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments whose conversion may be settled entirely or partially in cash (such as the Notes) in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost for non-convertible debt. Initially, the liability component of the Notes is valued at the fair value of a similar debt instrument that does not have an associated equity component. The value of the equity component of the Notes is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. Original issue discount is amortized to non-cash interest expense over the term of the Notes, accordingly, we record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods as a result of the amortization of the Notes. As a result, we currently report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires the interest expense associated with the Notes to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount and the Notes coupon interest. Our reporting of lower net income could adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the market price of our common stock. Risks Associated with the Regulation of our Business We are subject to laws and regulations governing the protection of personally identifiable information; we are also subject to cyber-attacks. A failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws or a cyber-attack could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. We collect, process, transmit, and/or store (on our systems and those of third party providers) customer transactional data, as well as their and our customers and employees personally identifiable information and/or other data and information. Personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions with regard to privacy and data security, including the California Consumer Privacy Act and the New York SHIELD Act, which provide for fines and potential liability to consumers. Likewise, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, imposes obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data. Moreover, what constitutes personally identifiable information and what other data and/or information is subject to the privacy laws varies by jurisdiction and continues to evolve, and the laws that do reference data privacy continue to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or changes in these laws and regulations, may be onerous and expensive and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Our failure and/or the failure of our customers, vendors, and service providers to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations could damage our reputation, discourage current and/or potential customers from using our products and services, and result in fines, governmental investigations and/or enforcement actions, complaints by private individuals, and/or the payment of penalties to consumers, any one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Illustrative of this risk, on March 21, 2019, a complaint was filed against PAR asserting that it violated the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act. See Note 14Contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report) for additional information regarding this lawsuit. We have established practices and procedures intended to protect our systems and information against cyber-attacks. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will prevent all cyber-attacks from impacting our systems and information. Our systems, and those of our third party providers, have and could in the future become subject to cyber-attacks, including using computer viruses, credential harvesting, dedicated denial of services attacks, malware, social engineering, and other means for obtaining unauthorized access to, or disrupting the operation of, our systems and those of our third party providers. Even though prior incidents did not have a material adverse effect on our systems and operations, there can be no assurance that the same will be the case in the future. In particular, the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the widespread remote working conditions increases the opportunities available to criminals, and, as such, the risk of a cyber-attack potentially occurring is increased. A failure or interruption of our systems or those of our third party providers may, and could in the future, result in operational disruptions, costly governmental investigations, unauthorized access, or misappropriation of information, including interruption of systems availability or denial of access to and misuse of applications or information required by our customers to conduct their business. Any operational disruptions, unauthorized access, or misappropriation of information (including personally identifiable information or personal data) could harm our relationship with our customers and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2020 due to material weaknesses related to control activities and monitoring controls that were not effective, as discussed in Part II, Item 9A.