Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with (i) the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the three months ended March 31, 2021, (ii) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2020 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 18, 2021 and (iii) the discussion under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K. Except for certain information as of December 31, 2020, all amounts herein are unaudited. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our and the Company refer to Paycom Software, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All amounts presented in tables, other than per share amounts, are in thousands unless otherwise noted. Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our business strategy; anticipated future operating results and operating expenses, cash flows, capital resources, dividends and liquidity; trends, opportunities and risks affecting our business, industry and financial results; future expansion or growth plans and potential for future growth; our ability to attract new clients to purchase our solution; our ability to retain clients and induce them to purchase additional applications; our ability to accurately forecast future revenues and appropriately plan our expenses; market acceptance of our solution and applications; our expectations regarding future revenues generated by certain applications; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes; how certain factors affecting our performance correlate to improvement or deterioration in the labor market; our plan to open additional sales offices and our ability to effectively execute such plan; the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over the next 12 months; our ability to relocate our Texas operations facility within an expected timeframe; our plans regarding our capital expenditures and investment activity as our business grows, including with respect to our new Texas operations facility and research and development; the expected impact on our consolidated financial statements of new accounting pronouncements; our plans to repurchase shares of our common stock through a stock repurchase plan; our expected income tax rate for future periods; and the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as anticipate, believe, could, expect, will, intend, may, might, plan, potential, should, would, and similar expressions or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance, and are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: changes in laws, government regulations and policies and interpretations thereof; the possibility of security vulnerabilities, cyberattacks and network disruptions, including breaches of data security and privacy leaks, data loss, and business interruptions; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. economy, including reductions in employment levels, business disruptions resulting from government-mandated mitigation measures and an increase in business failures; our compliance with data privacy laws and regulations; our ability to develop enhancements and new applications, keep pace with technological developments and respond to future disruptive technologies; our ability to compete effectively; fluctuations in our financial results due to factors beyond our control; our ability to manage our rapid growth and organizational change effectively; the possibility that clients may not be satisfied with our deployment or technical support services, or that our solution fails to perform properly; our dependence on our key executives; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including software developers and skilled IT, sales, marketing and operational personnel; the possibility that the Affordable Care Act may be modified, repealed or declared unconstitutional; our failure to develop and maintain our brand cost-effectively; 18 seasonality of certain operating results and financial metrics; our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights; our reliance on relationships with third parties; and the other factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-K, Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q and our other reports filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and are subject to business and economic risks. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which such statements were made, except to the extent required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of a comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solution delivered as Software-as-a-Service. We provide functionality and data analytics that businesses need to manage the complete employment lifecycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our solution requires virtually no customization and is based on a core system of record maintained in a single database for all HCM functions, including talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and human resources management applications. Our user-friendly software allows for easy adoption of our solution by employees, enabling self-management of their HCM activities in the cloud, which reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed and (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. We serve a diverse client base in terms of size and industry. None of our clients constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our revenues are primarily generated through our sales force that solicits new clients and our client relations representatives who sell new applications to existing clients. Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients through further penetration of our existing markets and geographic expansion into new markets, targeting a high degree of client employee usage across our solution, and introducing new applications to our existing client base. We believe our ability to continue to develop new applications and to improve existing applications will enable us to increase revenues in the future, and the number of our new applications adopted by our clients has been a significant factor in our revenue growth. We also plan to open additional sales offices in the future and leverage virtual sales meetings to further expand our presence in the U.S. market. Our principal marketing efforts include national and local advertising campaigns, email campaigns, social and digital media campaigns, search engine marketing methods, tradeshows, print advertising and outbound marketing including personalized direct mail campaigns. In addition, we generate leads and build recognition of our brand and thought leadership with relevant and informative content, such as white papers, blogs, podcast episodes and webinars. Throughout our history, we have built strong relationships with our clients. As the HCM needs of our clients evolve, we believe that we are well-positioned to expand the HCM spending of our clients and we believe this opportunity is significant. To be successful, we must continue to demonstrate the operational and economic benefits of our solution, as well as effectively hire, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Growth Outlook, Opportunities and Challenges As a result of our significant revenue growth and geographic expansion, we are presented with a variety of opportunities and challenges. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. Consequently, we have historically generated the majority of our revenues from our payroll applications, although our revenue mix has evolved and will continue to evolve as we develop and add new non-payroll applications to our solution. We believe our strategy of focusing on increased employee usage is key to long-term client satisfaction and client retention. Client adoption of new applications and client employee usage of both new and existing applications have been significant factors in our revenue growth, and we expect the continuation of this trajectory will depend, in part, on the introduction of applications to our existing client base that encourage and promote more employee usage. Moreover, in order to increase revenues and continue to improve our operating results, we must also attract new clients. We intend to obtain new clients by (i) continuing to leverage our sales force productivity within markets where we currently have existing sales offices, (ii) expanding our presence in metropolitan areas where we currently have an existing sales office through adding sales teams or offices, thereby increasing the number of sales professionals within such markets, and (iii) opening sales offices in new metropolitan areas. Our target client size range is 50 to 5,000 employees. While we continue to serve a diversified client base ranging in size from one employee to many thousands of employees, the average size of our clients has grown significantly as we have organically grown our operations, increased the number of applications we offer and gained traction with larger companies. We believe larger employers 19 represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of potential clients and to increase our revenues per client, with limited incremental cost to us. Because we charge our clients on a per employee basis for certain services we provide, any increase or decrease in the number of employees of our clients will have a positive or negative impact, respectively, on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, client headcount fluctuations are particularly relevant in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Generally, we expect that changes in certain factors affecting our performance will correlate with improvement or deterioration in the labor market . We collect funds from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. Those collections from clients are typically disbursed from one to 30 days after receipt, with some funds being held for up to 120 days. We typically invest funds held for clients in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper and certificates of deposit until they are paid to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. As we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients, we expect our average funds held for clients balance and, accordingly, interest earned on funds held for clients, will increase; however, the amount of interest we earn can be positively or negatively impacted by changes in interest rates. Even if our average funds held for clients balance increases, the impact of significantly lower average interest rates could partially offset the impact of such increased balance and, as a result, have a negative impact on recurring revenue growth. Growing our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial investments in sales professionals, operating expenses, system development and programming costs and general and administrative expenses, which have increased and will continue to increase our expenses. Specifically, our revenue growth and geographic expansion drive increases in our employee headcount, which in turn precipitates increases in (i) salaries and benefits, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and (iii) facility costs related to the expansion of our corporate headquarters and operations facilities and additional sales office leases. We believe the challenges of managing the ever-changing complexity of payroll and human resources will continue to drive companies to turn to outsourced providers for help with their HCM needs. The HCM industry historically has been driven, in part, by legislation and regulatory action, including COBRA, changes to the minimum wage laws or overtime rules, and legislation from federal, state or municipal taxation authorities. Our revenues are seasonal in nature. Recurring revenues include revenues relating to the annual processing of payroll forms, such as Form W-2, Form 1099, and Form 1095, and revenues from processing unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses) for our clients. Because payroll forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year, first quarter revenues and margins are generally higher than in subsequent quarters. These seasonal fluctuations in revenues can also have an impact on gross profits. Historical results impacted by these seasonal trends should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future results of operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, our total gross margins were approximately 87% and 88%, respectively. Although our gross margins may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and hiring trends, we expect that our gross margins will remain relatively consistent in future periods. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in February 2020, we took various actions in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate. In March 2020, we prohibited all business-related travel until further notice and began transitioning our employees to work-from-home arrangements. As of March 31, 2021, 95% of our employees were working remotely. Our sales employees have been conducting all meetings with current and prospective clients virtually since March 2020. Although we have developed a plan for certain employees to safely begin returning to our offices, we will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees and clients. Business continuity and safety will continue to guide our return-to-office plans. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the operations of our clients and client prospects and may continue to do so for an indefinite period of time. Across many industries, temporary and permanent business closures as well as business occupancy limitations have resulted in significant layoffs and employee furloughs since late March 2020. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, decreases in headcount at our clients as of the onset of the pandemic negatively impacted our recurring revenue beginning in the second quarter of 2020, and we expect that our recurring revenue in future periods will continue to be negatively impacted by such headcount reductions until employment levels among such client base return to pre-pandemic levels. Further, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, a limited number of new clients temporarily delayed service implementation. Between August 2019 and March 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target range for short-term interest rates several times, with the most significant rate cut occurring in March 2020 to support the economy and potentially reduce the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to significantly lower average interest rates in the first quarter of 2021, as compared to the majority of the first quarter of 2020, interest earned on funds held for clients for the three months ended March 31, 2021 decreased from the comparable prior year period, which had a negative effect on recurring revenue growth. 20 D emand for our solution remains high and d espite the economic challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain confident in the overall health of our business, the strength of our product offerings, and our ability to continue to execute on our strategy. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our sales force historically traveled frequently to sell our solution. The current remote work environment presents a unique opportunity for our sales force, in that each sales employee is able to meet virtually with a greater number of client prospects in a given day than he or she would if conducting in-person meetings. Internally, all applications within the Paycom solution, and more specifically Employee Self-Service , Manager on-the-Go , Documents and Checklists, Ask Here and our enhanced Learning Management System, have been instrumental in our ability to seamlessly manage and communicate with our remote workforce. As many clients have also transitioned their workforces to work-from-home arrangements, we believe they too are recognizing the benefits of these applications and our focus on employee usage, as well as the strengths and advantages of our single database solution. In contrast, we believe the remote work environment is exposing the weaknesses and disadvantages arising from the combination of disparate systems offered by some of our competitors. We will continue to aggressively invest in sales and marketing and in research and development to drive future growth and expand our market share. We are unable to estimate the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic could have on our business and results of operations in the future due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to the business of our clients and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in our Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC on February 18, 2021. Further, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable, the effect of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods. Results of Operations The following table sets forth consolidated statements of income data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Revenues Recurring $ 267,774 98.4 % $ 238,495 98.4 % 12% Implementation and other 4,424 1.6 % 3,873 1.6 % 14% Total revenues 272,198 100.0 % 242,368 100.0 % 12% Cost of revenues Operating expenses 29,073 10.7 % 24,116 10.0 % 21% Depreciation and amortization 7,200 2.6 % 5,930 2.4 % 21% Total cost of revenues 36,273 13.3 % 30,046 12.4 % 21% Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 62,761 23.1 % 55,018 22.7 % 14% Research and development 24,711 9.1 % 21,621 8.9 % 14% General and administrative 46,191 17.0 % 40,134 16.6 % 15% Depreciation and amortization 7,716 2.8 % 6,285 2.6 % 23% Total administrative expenses 141,379 52.0 % 123,058 50.8 % 15% Total operating expenses 177,652 65.3 % 153,104 63.2 % 16% Operating income 94,546 34.7 % 89,264 36.8 % 6% Interest expense 0.0 % (16 ) 0.0 % 100% Other income (expense), net 629 0.2 % (930 ) -0.4 % 168% Income before income taxes 95,175 34.9 % 88,318 36.4 % 8% Provision for income taxes 30,559 11.2 % 25,303 10.4 % 21% Net income $ 64,616 23.7 % $ 63,015 26.0 % 3% Revenues The increase in total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily the result of the addition of new clients and productivity and efficiency gains in mature sales offices, which are offices that have been open for at least 24 months, and the sale of additional applications to our existing clients. In addition, our tax forms filing business contributed to the increase in total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the same period in 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, headcount reductions across our client base. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, the drivers of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021 described above were partially offset by the negative impact of headcount reductions within our client base as of the onset of the pandemic. Significantly lower average interest rates during the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months 21 ended March 31, 20 20 , had a negative effect on recurring revenue growth for the three months ended March 3 1 , 202 1 . We expect that the foregoing adverse macroeconomic factors may continue to have a negative effect on recurring revenues in future periods for so long as such conditions persist. The increase in implementation and other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2021 from the same period in 2020 was primarily the result of increased non-refundable upfront conversion fees collected from the addition of new clients. These fees are deferred and recognized ratably over the ten-year estimated life of our clients. Expenses Cost of Revenues During the three months ended March 31, 2021, operating expenses increased from the comparable prior year period by $5.0 million due to a $3.4 million increase attributable to growth in the number of operating personnel, a $1.0 million increase in shipping and supplies fees, and a $0.6 million increase in automated clearing house fees in connection with the increase in revenues. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $1.3 million from the comparable prior year period, primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other fixed assets. Administrative Expenses Sales and Marketing During the three months ended March 31, 2021, sales and marketing expenses increased from the comparable prior year period by $7.7 million due to a $5.1 million increase in marketing and advertising expense attributable to increased spending across most components of our marketing program, and a $2.6 million increase in employee-related expenses, including commissions and bonuses. Based on positive results from recent advertising campaigns, we plan to continue to make significant investments in our marketing program and may increase spending in future periods as we see opportunities for returns on our investments. Research and Development During the three months ended March 31, 2021, research and development expenses increased from the comparable prior year period due to an increase in employee-related expenses. As we continue the ongoing development of our platform and product offerings, we generally expect research and development expenses (exclusive of stock-based compensation) to continue to increase, particularly as we hire more personnel to support our growth. While we expect this trend to continue on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of total revenues, we also anticipate the rate of increase to decline over time as we leverage our growth and realize additional economies of scale. As is customary for our business, we also expect fluctuations in research and development expense as a percentage of revenue on a quarter-to-quarter basis due to seasonal revenue trends, the introduction of new products, the amount and timing of research and development costs that may be capitalized and the timing of onboarding new hires and restricted stock vesting events. Expenditures for software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a three-year period on a straight-line basis. The nature of the development projects underway during a particular period directly impacts the timing and extent of these capitalized expenditures and can affect the amount of research and development expenses in such period. The table below sets forth the amounts of capitalized and expensed research and development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Capitalized portion of research and development $ 12,295 $ 9,746 26% Expensed portion of research and development 24,711 21,621 14% Total research and development costs $ 37,006 $ 31,367 18% General and Administrative During the three months ended March 31, 2021, general and administrative expenses increased $6.1 million from the comparable prior year period primarily due to an $8.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation and a $2.9 million increase in employee-related expenses, which were partially offset by a $5.1 million decrease in accounting and legal expenses. 22 Non-Cash Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents the non-cash stock-based compensation expense that is included within the specified line items in our consolidated statements of income: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Non-cash stock-based compensation expense Operating expenses $ 995 $ 1,198 -17% Sales and marketing 3,511 3,165 11% Research and development 1,567 2,171 -28% General and administrative 17,508 9,277 89% Total non-cash stock-based compensation expense $ 23,581 $ 15,811 49% During the three months ended March 31, 2021, our non-cash stock-based compensation expense increased $7.8 million from the comparable prior year period due to an increase in both the number of employees who received awards and the grant date fair value associated with the issuances in 2021. Depreciation and Amortization During the three months ended March 31, 2021, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the comparable prior year period primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other related fixed assets. Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, was due to the timing of construction of our expanded operations facility in Grapevine, Texas, which resulted in a higher capitalization rate of interest in 2021. Other Income (Expense), net The change in other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to the increase in the fair value of our interest rate swap as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is based on a current estimate of the annual effective income tax rate adjusted to reflect the impact of discrete items. Our effective income tax rate was 32.1% and 28.7 % for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The higher effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily resulted from an increase in nondeductible expenses as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital and liquidity are our operating cash flow and cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of demand deposit accounts, money market funds and certificates of deposit. Additionally, we maintain a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Facility), which can be accessed as needed to supplement our operating cash flow and cash balances. The Facility provides us the ability to borrow funds in the aggregate principal amount of $75.0 million, which may be increased to $125.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying certain other conditions. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. We have historically funded our operations from cash flows generated from operations, cash from the sale of equity securities and debt financing. Although we have funded most of the costs for ongoing construction projects at our corporate headquarters and other facilities from available cash, we have incurred indebtedness for a portion of these costs. Further, all purchases under our stock repurchase plans were paid for from available cash. Term Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2021, our indebtedness consisted solely of term loans (the Term Loans) made under a senior secured term credit agreement (as amended from time to time, the Term Credit Agreement) among the Company, certain of our subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Kirkpatrick Bank. All Term Loans were used to finance construction projects at our corporate headquarters. Our obligations under the Term Loans are secured by a mortgage and first priority security interest in our corporate headquarters property. The Term Loans mature on September 7, 2025 and bear interest, at our option, at either (a) a prime rate plus 1.0% or (b) an adjusted LIBOR rate for the interest period in effect for such Term Loan plus 1.5%. Under the Term Credit Agreement, we are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 and a funded indebtedness to EBITDA ratio of not greater than 2.0 to 1.0. Additionally, the Term Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants 23 limiting our ability to, among other things, grant liens, incur debt, effect certain mergers, make investments, dispose of assets, enter into certain transactions including swap agreements and sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, and enter into transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit ag reement of this size and type. As of March 31 , 20 2 1 , we were in compliance with all covenants set forth in the Term Credit Agreement. Interest Rate Swap Agreement. In connection with entering into the Term Credit Agreement, we also entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to limit the exposure to interest rate risk related to the Term Loans (the Interest Rate Swap Agreement). The Interest Rate Swap Agreement, which has a maturity date of September 7, 2025, provides that we receive quarterly variable interest payments based on the LIBOR rate and pay interest at a fixed rate. We have elected not to designate this interest rate swap as a hedge and, as such, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in our consolidated statements of income. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recorded a gain of $0.7 million for the change in fair value of the interest rate swap and for the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded a loss of $1.6 million, for the change in fair value of the interest rate swap. The change in fair value of the interest rate swap is included in Other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income . Revolving Credit Agreement. On February 12, 2018, we entered into a senior secured revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. that provided for the Facility in the aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million (the Revolving Commitment), which could be increased to up to $100.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying certain other conditions. The Facility includes a $5.0 million sublimit for swingline loans and a $2.5 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Facility was scheduled to mature on February 12, 2020. On April 15, 2019, we entered into the First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement (the First Amendment). Pursuant to the First Amendment, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was added as a lender and the Revolving Commitment was increased to $75.0 million, which may be further increased to $125.0 million subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying other conditions. The scheduled maturity date of the Facility was also extended to April 15, 2022. Borrowings under the Facility will generally bear interest at a prime rate plus 1.0% or, at our option, an adjusted LIBOR rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus 1.5%, in each case subject to certain conditions set forth in the Revolving Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Facility. Stock Repurchase Plan and Withholding Shares to Cover Taxes. In May 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan allowing for the repurchase of shares of our common stock in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means in accordance with federal securities laws, including Rule 10b5-1 programs. Since the initial authorization of the stock repurchase plan, our Board of Directors has amended and extended and authorized new stock repurchase plans from time to time. Most recently, in March 2020, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $250.0 million of our common stock. As of March 31, 2021, there was $134.9 million available for repurchases under our stock repurchase plan. Our stock repurchase plan may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased depends on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, shares withheld for taxes associated with the vesting of restricted stock and other corporate considerations. The current stock repurchase plan will expire on March 12, 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we repurchased an aggregate of 919 shares of our common stock at an average cost of $410.07 per share, all of which were shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations for certain employees upon the vesting of restricted stock. Our payment of the taxes on behalf of those employees resulted in an aggregate cash expenditure of $0.4 million and, as such, we generally subtract the amounts attributable to such withheld shares from the aggregate amount available for future purchases under our stock repurchase plan. Cash Flow Analysis Our cash flows from operating activities have historically been significantly impacted by profitability, implementation revenues received but deferred, our investment in sales and marketing to drive growth, and research and development. Our ability to meet future liquidity needs will be driven by our operating performance and the extent of continued investment in our operations. Failure to generate sufficient revenues and related cash flows could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our liquidity needs and achieve our business objectives. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. We are currently focused on the ongoing construction of our new Texas operations facility in Grapevine, Texas. Capital expenditures related to the construction of the facility began in the second quarter of 2019. Depending on certain growth opportunities, we may choose to accelerate investments in sales and marketing, acquisitions, technology and services. Actual future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our future revenues, cash from operating activities and the level of expenditures in all areas of our business. As part of our payroll and payroll tax filing services, we collect funds from our clients for federal, state and local employment taxes, which we remit to the appropriate tax agencies. We invest these funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, 24 commercial paper and certificates of deposit from which we earn interest income during the period between their receipt and disbursement. Our cash flows from investing and financing activities are influenced by the amount of funds held for clients, which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The balance of the funds we hold depends on our clients payroll calendars, and therefore such balance changes from period to period in accordance with the timing of each payroll cycle. Our cash flows from financing activities are also affected by the extent to which we use available cash to purchase shares of common stock under our stock repurchase plan as well as restricted stock vesting events that result in net share settlements and the Company paying withholding taxes on behalf of certain employees. The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 89,457 $ 82,030 9% Investing activities 7,455 (183,629 ) 104% Financing activities 685,369 (279,011 ) 346% Change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 782,281 $ (380,610 ) 306% Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily consisted of payments received from our clients and interest earned on funds held for clients. Cash used in operating activities primarily consisted of personnel-related expenditures to support the growth and infrastructure of our business. These payments included costs of operations, advertising and other sales and marketing efforts, IT infrastructure development, product research and development and security and administrative costs. Compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, our operating cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2021 were positively impacted by the growth of our business. Investing Activities Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased from the comparable prior year period due to a $130.7 million decrease in purchases of short-term investments from funds held for clients and a $60.0 million increase in proceeds from maturities of short-term investments from funds held for clients. Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased from the comparable prior year period primarily due to the impact of a $956.6 million change related to the client funds obligation, which is due to the timing of receipts from our clients and payments made to our clients employees and applicable taxing authorities on their behalf. Also contributing to the increase in cash flows provided by financing activities was a decrease of $8.0 million in repurchases of common stock. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of long-term debt and leases for office space. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations disclosed in the contractual obligations section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K that was filed with the SEC on February 18, 2021. For additional information regarding our leases, long-term debt and our commitments and contingencies, see Note 5. Leases, Note 6. Long-Term Debt and Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in the Form 10-K and Note 6. Long-Term Debt, Net and Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that may be material to investors. 25 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions to ensure that management believes them to be reasonable under the then-current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results may materially differ from these estimates made by management under different assumptions and conditions. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates, and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position, are discussed in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies disclosed in the Form 10-K. Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements Discussion of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements can be found in Note 2 in this Form 10-Q. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income as supplemental measures to review and assess the performance of our core business operations and for planning purposes. We define (i) adjusted EBITDA as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any) and the change in fair value of our interest rate swap and (ii) non-GAAP net income as net income plus non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any) and the change in fair value of our interest rate swap, all of which are adjusted for the effect of income taxes. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are metrics that provide investors with greater transparency to the information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. We believe these metrics are useful to investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core business operations across periods on a consistent basis, as well as comparisons with the results of peer companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA is a measure that provides useful information to management about the amount of cash available for reinvestment in our business, repurchasing common stock and other purposes. Management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in this Form 10-Q, when viewed in combination with our results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business and performance. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are not measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income have limitations as analytical tools, and when assessing our operating performance, you should not consider adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income in isolation, or as a substitute for net income or other consolidated statements of income data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies and other companies may not calculate such measures in the same manner as we do. The following tables reconcile net income to adjusted EBITDA, net income to non-GAAP net income and earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share on a basic and diluted basis: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net income to adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 64,616 $ 63,015 Interest expense 16 Provision for income taxes 30,559 25,303 Depreciation and amortization 14,916 12,215 EBITDA 110,091 100,549 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 23,581 15,811 Change in fair value of interest rate swap (656 ) 1,575 Adjusted EBITDA $ 133,016 $ 117,935 26 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net income to non-GAAP net income: Net income $ 64,616 $ 63,015 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 23,581 15,811 Change in fair value of interest rate swap (656 ) 1,575 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (1,633 ) (2,473 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 85,908 $ 77,928 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 57,740 57,655 Diluted 58,394 58,440 Earnings per share, basic $ 1.12 $ 1.09 Earnings per share, diluted $ 1.11 $ 1.08 Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 1.49 $ 1.35 Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 1.47 $ 1.33 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, basic: Earnings per share, basic $ 1.12 $ 1.09 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 0.41 0.27 Change in fair value of interest rate swap (0.01 ) 0.03 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.03 ) (0.04 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 1.49 $ 1.35 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, diluted: Earnings per share, diluted $ 1.11 $ 1.08 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 0.40 0.27 Change in fair value of interest rate swap (0.01 ) 0.03 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.03 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 1.47 $ 1.33 27