Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business depends substantially on our clients continued use of our applications, their purchases of additional applications from us and our ability to add new clients. Any decline in our clients continued use of our applications or purchases of additional applications could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our current clients continue to use our applications and purchase additional applications from us, and that we add new clients. Our clients have no obligation to continue to use our applications, and may choose not to continue to use our applications at the same or higher level of service, if at all. In the past, some of our clients have elected not to continue to use our applications. Moreover, our clients generally have the right to cancel their agreements with us for any or no reason by providing 30 days prior written notice. Our client retention rates may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of client satisfaction with our applications, pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our client base, reduced hiring by our clients or reductions in our clients spending levels. If our clients do not continue to use our applications, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional applications, or if we fail to add new clients, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. If our security measures are breached, or unauthorized access to our clients or their employees sensitive data is otherwise obtained, our solution may not be perceived as being secure, clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solution, our ability to attract new clients may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients and their employees confidential and proprietary information, including personal or identifying information, as well as financial and payroll data. HCM software is increasingly being targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our clients sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our clients or other third parties business operations. If cybercriminals are able to circumvent our security measures, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our clients sensitive data may be compromised. Certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures could be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients to discontinue the use of our solution, prevent us from attracting new clients, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other actions or liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any interruption or failure of our data centers could impair our ability to effectively provide our solution and adversely affect our business. We serve all of our clients from our two data centers located in Oklahoma and Texas. These locations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from severe weather, tornados, terrorist attacks, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. Our solution depends on the continuing operation of our data centers and any damage to or failure of our data centers could result in interruptions in our services. Any interruption in our service, including adverse changes in service levels at our data centers, could damage our reputation and, consequently, our ability to attract new clients, cause our clients to terminate their use of our solution and 12 prevent us from gaining new or additional business from current clients, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. The market for HCM software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. We expect competition to intensify in the future with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants. Many of our current and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, more established relationships in the industry and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, some of these competitors may be able to: adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their product and service offerings more efficiently or rapidly; bundle products and services that we may not offer or in a manner that provides our competitors with a price advantage; take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities for expansion more readily; maintain a lower cost basis; adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing and sales of their products and services; and devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and our billing terms, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solution to maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We compete with firms that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but as demand for greater flexibility and access to information grows, we believe there will be increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other SaaS providers. Our competitors offer HCM solutions that overlap with one, several or all categories of applications that we offer. Our talent acquisition and talent management applications compete primarily with Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Oracle Corporation, SAP SE and Workday, Inc. Our payroll applications, including payroll processing, compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Concur Technologies, Inc., Intuit Inc., Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation and The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. Our HR management applications compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Oracle Corporation, Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation, SAP SE, and Workday, Inc. Our time and labor management applications compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Kronos Incorporated, Paylocity Holding Corporation and The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. Most of our larger competitors compete with us across multiple application categories. In addition, our HCM solution continues to face competition from in-house payroll and HR systems and departments as well as HR systems and software sold by third-party vendors. Competition in the HCM solutions market is primarily based on service responsiveness, application quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering and price. Many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger client bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, software vendors and distributors. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of HCM functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our solution. Further, some potential clients, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. We have historically derived a majority of our revenues from payroll processing and our efforts to increase the use of our other HCM applications may not be successful and may reduce our revenue growth rate. To date, we have derived a majority of our revenues from payroll processing. Compared to payroll processing, our participation in certain other HCM applications markets is relatively new, and it is uncertain whether our revenues from other HCM applications will continue to grow. The uncertainty regarding the adoption of any new applications beyond our existing applications may make it difficult to evaluate our business. Our HCM solution may not achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the continued success of our business. The failure to increase the use of our HCM applications and any new applications developed by us may reduce our revenue growth rate, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. 13 Any significant disruption in our SaaS network infrastructure could harm our reputation and expose us to significant costs. Our SaaS network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our solution through standard web browsers, smart phones, tablets and other web-enabled devices, and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our solution. In the future, we may experience disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include: human error; security breaches; telecommunications failures or outages from third-party providers; computer viruses or cyber-attacks; acts of terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism; unforeseen interruption or damages; tornados, fires, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; and power loss. If our SaaS network infrastructure or our clients ability to access our solution is interrupted, client and employee data from recent transactions may be permanently lost and we could be exposed to significant claims by clients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds due to employees. Any significant instances of system downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to retain clients and sell our solution, which would adversely impact our revenues. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of clients and transactions and the amount of client and employee data that our network infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our network infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our clients and their employees and to facilitate the rapid provision of new client deployments and the expansion of existing client deployments. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our network infrastructure could adversely affect our reputation and may result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our solution. Any interruptions in the availability of our solution might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to clients or adversely affect our retention of existing clients, which could have a negative impact on our business or financial condition. If our solution fails to perform properly, our reputation could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Our solution is inherently complex and may in the future contain, or develop, undetected defects or errors. Any defects in our applications could adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to sell our applications in the future and result in significant costs to us. The costs incurred in correcting any application defects may be substantial and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any defects in functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in: loss or delayed market acceptance and sales of our applications; termination of service agreements or loss of clients; credits or refunds to clients, including reimbursements for any fees or penalties assessed by regulatory agencies; breach of contract, breach of warranty or indemnification claims against us, which may result in litigation; diversion of development and service resources; and injury to our reputation. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Our clients might assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error, or other failure of our solution. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Any failures in the performance of our solution could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. 14 If we do not effectively expand and train ou r sales force and our support teams, we may be unable to add new clients and retain existing clients. We need to continue to expand our sales force and support team members in order to grow our client base and increase our revenues. To continue to execute our growth strategy, we must also attract and retain qualified sales, marketing and operational personnel capable of supporting a larger and more diverse client base. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our applications requires significant time, expense and attention and it can take a substantial amount of time before our sales representatives and support team members are fully-trained and productive. We may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we currently, or intend in the future to do business, and our recent hires and planned hires may not achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or become as productive as we expect. If our expansion efforts are unsuccessful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. If we fail to manage such growth and change effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. For example, our headcount has grown from 523 employees as of December 31, 2011 to 2,075 employees as of December 31, 2016, and we have expanded from 20 sales teams as of December 31, 2011 to 42 sales teams as of January 31, 2017. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of clients and transactions and the amount of client and employee data that our infrastructure supports. Finally, our organizational structure and recording systems and procedures are becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage this growth and organizational change effectively. To manage the expected growth of our headcount and operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Our ability to add additional offices may be constrained by the willingness and availability of qualified personnel to staff and manage any new offices. The failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulties or delays in obtaining clients, selling additional applications to our clients, declines in quality or client satisfaction of our applications, increases in costs, and difficulties in introducing new applications or other operational difficulties, any of which could adversely affect our business by impairing our ability to retain and attract clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new applications, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future disruptive technologies, we might not remain competitive and our business could be adversely affected. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new clients and increase revenues from existing clients, we need to enhance, add new features to and improve our existing applications and introduce new applications. The success of any enhancements or new features and applications depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. We may expend significant time and resources developing and pursuing sales of a particular enhancement or application that may not result in revenues in the anticipated time frame or at all, or may not result in revenue growth sufficient to offset increased expenses. Further, changing regulatory requirements may delay the development or introduction of enhancements or new applications or render certain of our applications obsolete. If we are unable to successfully develop enhancements, new features or new applications to meet client needs, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, because our applications are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using Internet tools and protocols, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our applications to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our current and future applications may become less marketable and less competitive or even obsolete. Our success is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver HCM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. The market for our solution among large companies may be limited if these companies demand customized features and functions that we do not offer. Prospective clients, especially larger companies, may require customized features and functions unique to their business processes that we do not offer. In order to ensure we meet these requirements, we may devote a significant amount of support and services resources to larger prospective clients, increasing the cost and time required to complete sales with no guarantee that these prospective clients will adopt our solution. Further, we may not be successful in implementing any customized features or functions. If prospective clients require customized features or functions that we do not offer, or that would be difficult for them to deploy themselves, the market for our solution will be more limited and our business could be adversely affected. 15 We m ay encounter long sales cycles with larger prospective clients, which could adversely affect our operating results in a given period. We believe larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of clients we serve and to increase our revenues per client. To further capitalize on this opportunity, we intend to pursue larger businesses opportunistically within our target client size range where our current sales model is effective. As we target our sales efforts at larger clients, we will face longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In the large enterprise market, the clients decision to use our applications may be an enterprise-wide decision and, therefore, these types of sales will require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our applications. In addition, our target clients may prefer to purchase applications that are critical to their business from one of our larger, more established competitors. Our typical sales cycles are 30 to 90 days and we expect that our average sales cycle may gradually trend towards the higher end of this range as we pursue larger clients. Longer sales cycles could cause our operating and financial results to suffer in a given period. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our deployment or technical support services. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients, both with respect to our applications and the technical support provided to help clients use the applications that address the needs of their businesses. We use our in-house deployment personnel to implement and configure our solution and provide support to our clients. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of our solution or the applications delivered or the support provided, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, our profitability might be negatively affected, and the clients dissatisfaction with our deployment service could damage our ability to sell additional applications to that client. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solution and applications and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective clients, and, as a result, our business, operating results or financial condition. We are dependent on the continued service of our key executives and, if we fail to retain such key executives, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued services of our senior management team, consisting of Chad Richison, Craig E. Boelte, Jeffrey D. York, William X. Kerber III and Stacey Pezold. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to retain these key executives. Although the employment arrangements with each of our key executives contain non-competition restrictions, our business could nonetheless be adversely affected if a key executive leaves Paycom and attempts to compete with us. In addition, we have not purchased key person life insurance on any members of our senior management team. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including software developers and skilled IT specialists, our ability to develop new products and, in turn, increase our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new applications, we are heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified software developers and IT personnel with the requisite education, background and industry experience. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors. This competition for qualified personnel may be amplified by new immigration laws or policies that could limit software companies ability to recruit internationally. Although such changes in immigration laws or policies would not have a significant direct impact on our workforce, the ensuing increase in demand for software developers and IT personnel could impair our ability to attract or retain skilled employees and/or significantly increase our costs to do so. Further, the loss of the services of a significant number of our developers could be disruptive to our development efforts, which may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose clients, increase operating expenses or divert managements attention to recruit replacements for the departed employees. Our financial results may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Our results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, costs of revenues, administrative expenses, operating income, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future and the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in our financial results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period include, without limitation: our ability to attract new clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients; the number of new clients and their employees, as compared to the number of existing clients and their employees in a particular period; the mix of clients between small, mid-sized and large organizations; 16 the extent to which we retain existing clients and the expansion or contraction of our relationships with them; the mix of applications sold during a period; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; seasonal factors affecting payroll processing, demand for our applications or potential clients purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; the timing and success of new applications introduced by us and the timing of expenses related to the development of new applications and technologies; the timing and success of current and new competitive products and services by our competitors; economic conditions affecting our clients, including their ability to outsource HCM solutions and hire employees; other changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or clients; our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including expenses related to our data centers and the expansion of such data centers and the addition of new offices; the effects and expenses of acquisition of third-party technologies or businesses and any potential future charges for impairment of goodwill resulting from those acquisitions; network outages or security breaches; and general economic, industry and market conditions. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. We have historically experienced seasonality in our revenues because a significant portion of our recurring revenues relate to the annual processing of payroll forms such as Form W-2 and Form 1099 and, beginning in 2016, the annual processing and filing of ACA-related forms. Because these forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year, first quarter revenues are generally higher than subsequent quarters. In addition, unscheduled payroll runs at the end of the year (such as bonuses) often result in increased revenues in the fourth quarter. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future, although the repeal or modification of the ACA could have an impact on the seasonality of our revenues. Nonetheless, the seasonal fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics may make such results and metrics difficult to predict. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenues or incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent in part upon our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our applications and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products or services that compete with ours. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property. We have been involved in litigation in the past and litigation may be necessary in the future to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or control access to, and the distribution of, our solution and proprietary information, which could affect our business. If the SaaS market develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our growth may slow or stall, and our business could be adversely affected. The SaaS market is not as mature as the market for on premise enterprise software, and it is uncertain whether SaaS will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success depends not only on strong demand for HCM services in general, but also to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of SaaS. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS. It is difficult to predict client adoption rates and demand for our solution, the future growth rate and size of the SaaS 17 market or the entry of competitive products. The expansion of the SaaS market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, pe rformance and perceived value associated with SaaS, as well as the ability of SaaS providers to address security and privacy concerns. If other SaaS providers experience security incidents, loss of client data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, th e market for SaaS applications as a whole, including our solution, may be negatively affected. If there is a reduction in demand for SaaS caused by a lack of client acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy co ncerns, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, our growth may slow or stall, and our business could be adversely affected. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Considerable intellectual property development activity exists in our industry, and we expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of applications and competitors grows and the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property in technology areas relating to our solution or applications. In addition, we may increasingly be subject to trademark infringement claims as our presence grows in the marketplace. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. A claim of infringement may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover, or may be alleged to cover, some or all of our solution, applications or brands. The outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, any future litigation or claim of infringement could (i) cause us to enter into an unfavorable royalty or license agreement, pay ongoing royalties or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, (ii) require us to discontinue the sale of our solution or applications, (iii) require us to indemnify our clients or third-party service providers or (iv) require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solution or applications. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business and operations. We employ third-party licensed software for use in our applications and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business. Our applications incorporate certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, incorporating the software used in our applications with new third-party software may require significant work and substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, result in a failure of our applications and harm our reputation. The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights. Some of our applications use software covered by open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional development resources to change our applications. In addition, if we were to combine our applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our applications. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to redesign our applications, discontinue the sale of our applications or take other remedial actions, which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development activities for several years, if at all. Developing SaaS-based applications is expensive and the investment in the development of these applications often involves a long-term return on our investment. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development activities. Accelerated application introductions and short software life cycles require increased levels of research and development expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by increased revenues. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development activities to maintain our competitive position. We may not receive significant revenues from these investments however, for several years, if at all. The failure to develop our brand cost-effectively could have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving the widespread acceptance of our solution and is an important element in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients. Successful promotion of our brand depends largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful applications at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they 18 do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain o ur brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new clients or retain our existing clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building effo rts, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to certain operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2016, our indebtedness consisted of (i) a term note under the 2021 Consolidated Loan due to Kirkpatrick Bank (the 2021 Consolidated Loan), with an outstanding principal balance of $25.0 million, and (ii) an 84-month term loan from Kirkpatrick Bank (the 2023 Term Loan), with an outstanding principal balance of $4.9 million. In August 2016, we also entered into a construction loan with Kirkpatrick Bank, which is available to finance the ongoing construction of a fourth headquarters building and new parking garage (the 2016 Construction Loan). As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any outstanding borrowings under the 2016 Construction Loan. Pursuant to the terms of both the 2021 Consolidated Loan and the 2023 Term Loan, we may not, subject to certain exceptions: create any mortgages or liens; make any loans, advances or extensions of credit to certain affiliates or enter into any other transaction with certain affiliates; lease any mortgaged property; make any distributions as long as an event of default exists; make any material change in methods of accounting; enter into any sale and leaseback arrangement; amend, modify, restate, cancel or terminate our organizational documents; sell, transfer or convey any mortgaged property; or incur funded outside debt. To the extent we borrow under the 2016 Construction Loan, the foregoing covenants will also apply until all such amounts are repaid. In addition, under the 2021 Consolidated Loan, the 2023 Term Loan and the 2016 Construction Loan (collectively, the Loan Agreements), we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to fixed charges (defined as current maturities of long-term debt, interest expense, rent expense and distributions) of greater than 1.2 to 1.0, which is measured on a quarterly basis. The operating and financial covenants in the Loan Agreements, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. We may also be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, expansion, or other general corporate purposes. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations and comply with the operating and financial covenants may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to control many of these factors and comply with these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants under the Loan Agreements could result in an event of default, which could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under the Loan Agreements to become immediately due and payable. We may acquire other businesses, applications or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. In the future, we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are ultimately consummated. We do not have any experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or to effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: the inability to integrate or benefit from acquired applications or services in a profitable manner; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; the incurrence of acquisition-related costs; 19 difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the clients of the acquired business onto our solution, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or services of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; harm to our existing relationships with clients as a result of the acquisition; the potential loss of key employees; the use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and the use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of any companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Our growth depends in part on the success of our relationships with third parties. We rely on third-party financial and accounting processing systems, as well as various financial institutions, to perform financial services in connection with our applications, such as providing automated clearing house (ACH), and wire transfers as part of our payroll and expense reimbursement services and to provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business, provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with these third parties and integrating third-party content and technology requires significant time and resources. Our agreements with third parties typically are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors. In addition, these third parties may not perform as expected under our agreements, and we may have disagreements or disputes with such third parties, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our third-party providers, particularly those financial institutions that process transactions through the ACH network, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the resources we expect to our relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, these relationships may not result in improved operating results. Adverse economic conditions could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for HCM applications and on the economic health of our current and prospective clients. If economic conditions in the United States or in global markets remain uncertain or deteriorate, clients may cease their operations, delay or reduce their spending on HCM and other outsourcing services or attempt to renegotiate their contracts with us. This could result in reductions in sales of our applications, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, HCM spending levels may not increase following any recovery. In addition, as part of our payroll and tax filing application, we collect and then remit client funds to taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. During the interval between receipt and disbursement, we may invest such funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. These investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks, and such risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. Any loss of or inability to access such funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and results of operations and could require us to obtain additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or earlier if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2016, we had recorded a total of $51.9 million of goodwill and $1.9 million of other intangible assets. An adverse change in domestic or global market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates made in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill or 20 intangible assets, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such materi al charges may have a negative impact our operating results. We typically pay employees and may pay taxing authorities amounts due for a payroll period before a clients electronic funds transfers are finally settled to our account. If client payments are rejected by banking institutions or otherwise fail to clear into our accounts, we may require additional sources of short-term liquidity and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our payroll processing application moves significant funds from the account of a client to employees and relevant taxing authorities. For larger funding amounts, we require clients to transfer the funds to us via fed wire. For smaller funding amounts, we debit a clients account prior to any disbursement on its behalf, and due to ACH banking regulations, funds previously credited could be reversed under certain circumstances and time frames after our payment of amounts due to employees and taxing and other regulatory authorities. There is therefore a risk that the employers funds will be insufficient to cover the amounts we have already paid on its behalf. While such shortage and accompanying financial exposure has only occurred in very limited circumstances in the past, should clients default on their payment obligations in the future, we might be required to advance substantial funds to cover such obligations. In such an event, we may be required to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and our operating results and our liquidity could be adversely affected and our banking relationships could be harmed. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solution to clients located outside of the United States, our business will be subject to risks associated with international operations. An element of our growth strategy is to expand our operations and client base. To date, we have not engaged in any operations outside of the United States. If we decide to expand our operations into international markets, it will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our lack of experience with international operations, we cannot ensure that our international expansion efforts will be successful, and the impact of such expansion efforts may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Legislation or Regulation The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in 2016, we generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. On January 20, 2017, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order stating that it is the policy of the new administration to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA. Many uncertainties exist regarding the immediate impact of this executive order as well as when and if the ACA will ultimately be modified or repealed. Nonetheless, the modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If the ACA is modified to eliminate the employer reporting requirements, or if the ACA is repealed and replaced with new legislation that does not include similar employer reporting requirements, we will no longer generate revenues in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients. Further, uncertainty regarding the potential future modification, repeal or replacement of the ACA could adversely affect our ability to sell our Enhanced ACA application to new clients. We expect that as of March 1, 2017, we will have collected the majority of our anticipated revenues from processing and filing clients ACA-related forms for the 2016 fiscal year, and estimate that approximately 3% of our projected total revenues for the year ending December 31, 2017 would be eliminated if, as a result of a hypothetical repeal or modification of the ACA, we did not collect any additional ACA-related revenues after March 1, 2017. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our applications. Our applications require the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information of our clients and their employees, including personal or identifying information, as well as their financial and payroll data. Our applications are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state and local levels, including those governing personal privacy, which has become a significant issue in the United States. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws and state data breach notification laws. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these 21 laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our solution. Any failure to comply with government regulations that apply to our applications, including privacy and data protection laws, could subject us to liability. In addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solution, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our clients employees to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our clients and their employees to use our applications effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications in certain industries. All of these legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect the ability of our clients to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, which could reduce demand for our applications. Changes in laws, government regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our applications are designed to assist our clients in complying with government regulations that continually change. Changes in laws, regulations or policies could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for certain of our existing applications, which would result in decreased revenues. Further, we may spend time and money developing new applications and enhancements that, due to regulatory changes, become unnecessary prior to being released. The introduction of new regulatory or licensing requirements, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could also increase our cost of doing business, and changing regulatory requirements may make the introduction of new applications and enhancements more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate, or prevent the introduction of new applications and enhancements by us altogether. In addition, any failure to educate and assist our clients with respect to new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse effect on our reputation, and any failure to modify our applications or develop new applications in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our applications, and could have a negative impact on our business. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business. Federal, state and foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, or result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based applications such as ours. In addition, the use of the Internet as a means of conducting business could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease of use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the Internet has been adversely affected by viruses, worms and similar malicious programs and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the Internet is adversely affected by these issues, demand for our applications could suffer, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements. Management must evaluate and furnish a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and our auditors must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. Compliance with the public company requirements has made some activities more time-consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and/or we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE), the SEC, or other regulatory authorities and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. 22 Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our solution and applications and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. As a vendor of services, we are ordinarily held responsible by taxing authorities for collecting and paying any applicable sales or other similar taxes. Additionally, the application of federal, state and local tax laws to services provided electronically like ours is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and applications provided over the Internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity, due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe we are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we may voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with that states rules and regulations. We cannot ensure that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we currently believe no such taxes are required. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our clients to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our clients to pay fines or penalties and substantial interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our clients, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, the imposition of such taxes on us would effectively increase the cost of our software and services we provide to clients and would likely have a negative impact on our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the jurisdictions in which such taxes are imposed. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time-to-time, we have released, and may continue to release, guidance in our earnings conference calls, earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance, which represents our estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Projections are also based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Risk Factors section in this Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the current market price. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile for the foreseeable future. If an active trading market for our common stock is not sustained, you may have difficulty selling any shares of our common stock that you purchased, and the value of such shares may be materially impaired. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; the overall performance of the equity markets; announcements by us or our competitors of new applications or enhancements, acquisitions, services, strategic alliances, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 23 disruptions in our services due to hardware, software or network problems; recruitment or departure of key personnel; publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; trading activity by a limited number of stockholders who together beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock; the size of our public float; the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry and the industries of our clients; and economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class actions following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans, warrants or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to one hundred million shares of common stock and up to ten million shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, partly or in full, through the issuance of additional equity securities. Any issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition, the exercise of stock options or warrants, the award of shares of restricted stock or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our existing stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Item 2. P roperties Our corporate headquarters is an approximately 250,000-square-foot campus located on over 30 acres of Company-owned property in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In addition to housing a fully redundant data center at our corporate headquarters, we operate another fully redundant data center at a leased property near Dallas, Texas. We also lease a disaster recovery site in downtown Oklahoma City. We also lease offices in Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington. We believe that these facilities are suitable for our current operations and upon the expiration of the terms of the leases we believe we could renew these leases or find suitable space elsewhere on acceptable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes, claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the resolution of current pending legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Nonetheless, we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, as legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 25 PART I I Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Price Range of Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol PAYC. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sale prices per share of our common stock as reported on the NYSE: High Low Fiscal Year 2015: First Quarter $ 35.86 $ 22.58 Second Quarter $ 39.75 $ 29.36 Third Quarter $ 41.58 $ 29.80 Fourth Quarter $ 46.35 $ 34.85 Fiscal Year 2016: First Quarter $ 37.74 $ 22.42 Second Quarter $ 43.25 $ 32.42 Third Quarter $ 52.93 $ 42.73 Fourth Quarter $ 52.80 $ 39.15 As of February 6, 2017, there were approximately 754 holders of record of our common stock. This number is based on the actual number of holders registered at such date and does not include holders whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividends We did not pay any cash dividends on our common stock in 2016, 2015 or 2014. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and we may reduce or discontinue entirely the payment of such dividends at any time. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications of the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. While there are no restrictions that currently apply under our existing loan agreements, such agreements prohibit the payment of dividends if an event of default exists. In addition, any financing arrangements that we enter into in the future may include restrictive covenants that limit our or our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company that has no material assets other than our ownership of all of the outstanding Series B Preferred Units of Paycom Payroll Holdings, LLC (Holdings) and the outstanding capital stock of WCAS Paycom Holdings, Inc. (WCAS Holdings) and WCAS CP IV Blocker, Inc. In the event that we decide to pay dividends in the future, we intend to cause Holdings to make distributions to us in an amount sufficient to cover cash dividends, if any, declared by us. 26 Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our filings with the SEC, the following performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or soliciting material under the Exchange Act and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. The following graph compares the total cumulative stockholder return on our common stock with the total cumulative return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index during the period commencing on April 15, 2014, the initial trading day of our common stock, and ending on December 31, 2016. The graph assumes that $100 was invested at the beginning of the period in our common stock and in each of the comparative indices, and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. Purchases of Equity Securities The number of shares of common stock repurchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2016 is set forth below: Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1 - 31, 2016 37,285 $ 48.91 37,285 $ 25,400,000 November 1 - 30, 2016 513,768 $ 42.27 513,768 $ 3,700,000 December 1 - 31, 2016 83,453 $ 43.63 83,453 $ 40,000 Total 634,506 634,506 (1) Under a stock repurchase plan announced on May 26, 2016, we were authorized to purchase up to $50.0 million of our common stock prior to May 25, 2018. On February 8, 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors amended and extended the stock repurchase plan, such that we are authorized to purchase up to an additional $50.0 million of our common stock. The stock repurchase plan will expire on January 23, 2019. 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Our selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read together with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Selected consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 is that of Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries and WCAS Holdings. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share data) Consolidated statements of income data: Total revenues $ 329,141 $ 224,653 $ 150,929 $ 107,601 $ 76,810 Operating income $ 57,971 $ 34,435 $ 15,700 $ 9,472 $ 6,133 Net income (loss) $ 43,840 $ 20,945 $ 5,663 $ 607 $ (406 ) Earnings (loss) per share, basic $ 0.76 $ 0.37 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ (0.01 ) Earnings (loss) per share, diluted $ 0.74 $ 0.36 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ (0.01 ) Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 57,550,204 56,495,170 49,784,154 45,476,895 44,771,559 Diluted 58,968,099 57,919,700 51,857,309 48,062,075 44,771,559 As of December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Consolidated balance sheets data: (dollars in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 60,158 $ 50,714 $ 25,144 $ 13,362 $ 13,435 Working capital (deficit) (1) 31,919 37,330 15,340 (7,694 ) 5,099 Property and equipment, net 96,848 58,858 47,919 38,671 25,139 Total assets 1,078,613 876,655 797,497 575,478 430,041 Deferred revenue 39,711 29,036 19,337 12,572 8,392 Net long-term debt, less current portion 28,711 24,856 26,123 11,545 11,959 Long-term debt to related parties 60,875 60,633 Additional paid in capital 95,452 71,135 67,937 33,978 23,577 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 70,448 26,608 5,663 (29,349 ) (14,249 ) Total stockholder's equity $ 116,527 $ 98,314 $ 74,138 $ 5,083 $ 9,776 (1) Working capital (deficit) is defined as current assets, excluding restricted cash, less current liabilities, excluding the current portion of deferred revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, our working capital includes the effects of the adoption of ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as noncurrent on our consolidated balance sheets. 28 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements (prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP)) and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K). The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. See Part I Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks, and assumptions associated with those statements. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by forward- looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, particularly in the section entitled Risk Factors. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our and the Company refer to Paycom Software, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management (HCM) software delivered as Software-as-a-Service. We provide functionality and data analytics that businesses need to manage the complete employment life cycle from recruitment to retirement. Our solution requires virtually no customization and is based on a core system of record maintained in a single database for all HCM functions, including talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and human resources (HR) management applications. Our user-friendly software allows for easy adoption of our solution by employees, enabling self-management of their HCM activities in the cloud, which reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity. We serve a diverse client base in terms of size and industry. We have over 17,800 clients, none of which constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. We stored data for more than 2.7 million persons employed by our clients during the year ended December 31, 2016. Our revenues are primarily generated through our sales force that solicits new clients and our client relations representatives who sell additional applications to existing clients. We have 42 sales teams located in 24 states and plan to open additional sales offices to further expand our presence in the U.S. market. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we opened six new sales offices, with one new sales office located in each of Chicago, Cleveland, Pasadena, Sacramento, San Antonio and Stamford. Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients through further penetration of our existing markets, geographic expansion and the introduction of new applications to our existing client base. We also expect that changes in certain factors affecting our performance will correlate with improvement or deterioration in the labor market. Our principal marketing programs include email campaigns, social and digital media, search engine marketing methods and tradeshows. During the last three years, we have developed several new applications. We believe our ability to continue to develop new applications and to improve existing applications will enable us to increase revenues in the future, and the number of our new applications adopted by our clients has been a significant factor in our revenue growth over the last three years. Trends, Opportunities and Challenges Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. As a result of our evolving revenue mix as clients add more non-payroll applications, coupled with the unique client benefits that our solution provides ( e.g. , enabling our clients to scale the number of HCM applications that they use on an as-needed basis), we are presented with a variety of opportunities and challenges. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed or (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when they pay their employees, which is either weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, our gross margins were approximately 84%, 84% and 82%, respectively. Although our gross margins may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and hiring trends, we expect that our gross margins will remain relatively consistent in future periods. Growing our business has also resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial investment in sales professionals, operating expenses, systems development and programming costs and general and administrative expenses, which has and will continue to increase our expenses. We intend to obtain new clients by (i) continuing to expand our presence in metropolitan areas where we currently have an existing sales office through adding sales teams or offices and increasing the number of our sales professionals and (ii) opening sales offices in new metropolitan areas. Our ability to increase revenues and improve operating results depends on our ability to add new clients. The average size of our clients has grown significantly as we have organically grown our operations and increased the number of applications we offer. Based on our total revenues, we have grown at an approximately 44% CAGR from January 1, 2012 through 29 December 31, 2016. Because we charge our clients on a per employee basis for certain services we provide, any increase or decrease in the number of employees that our clients ha ve will have a positive or negative impact, respectively, on our results of operations. Our solution requires no adjustment to serve larger clients. We believe larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of potential clients and to increase our revenues per client, with limited incremental cost to us. We believe the challenges of managing the ever-changing complexity of payroll and human resources will continue to drive companies to turn to outsourced providers for help with their HCM needs. The HCM industry historically has been driven, in part, by legislation and regulatory action, including COBRA, changes to the minimum wage laws or overtime rules, and legislation from federal, state or municipal taxation authorities. The implementation of the Affordable Care Act (the ACA) is the most recent example of legislation that has created demand in the HCM industry. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 5% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2017. Throughout our history, we have built strong relationships with our clients. As the HCM needs of our clients evolve, we believe that we are well-positioned to gain additional share of the HCM spending of our clients, and we believe this opportunity is significant. To be successful, we must continue to demonstrate the operational and economic benefits of our solution, as well as effectively hire, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Key Metrics In addition to the U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we also monitor the following metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance and identify trends affecting our business: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Key performance indicators: Clients 17,817 15,004 12,775 Clients (based on parent company grouping) 10,464 8,906 7,945 Sales teams 42 36 31 Annual revenue retention rate 91 % 91 % 91 % Clients. When we calculate the number of clients at period end, we treat client accounts with separate taxpayer identification numbers as separate clients, which often separates client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients to provide an accurate gauge of the size of our business. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to clients throughout this Form 10-K refer to this metric. Clients (based on parent company grouping). When we calculate the number of clients based on parent company grouping at period end, we combine client accounts that have identified the same person(s) as their decision-maker regardless of whether the client accounts have separate taxpayer identification numbers, which often combines client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients based on parent company grouping to provide an alternate measure of the size of our business and clients. Sales Teams . We monitor our sales professionals by the number of sales teams at period end. Each team consists of a sales manager and approximately six to eight sales professionals. Certain larger metropolitan areas can support more than one sales team. We believe that the number of sales teams is an indicator of potential revenues for future periods. Annual Revenue Retention Rate . Our annual revenue retention rate tracks the percentage of revenues that we retain from our existing clients. We monitor this metric because it is an indicator of client satisfaction and revenues for future periods. Components of Results of Operations Sources of Revenues Revenues are comprised of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues. We expect our revenues to increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. As a percentage of total revenues, we expect our mix of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues to remain relatively constant. 30 Recurring. Recurring revenues include fees for our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications as well as fees charged for delivery of client payroll checks and reports. These revenues are deriv ed from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed or (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. Because recurring revenues are based, in part, on fees for use of our applications and the delivery of c hecks and reports that are levied on a per-employee basis, our recurring revenues increase as our clients hire more employees. Recurring revenues are recognized in the period services are rendered. As of April 1, 2016, recurring revenues also include int erest earned on funds held for clients. We collect funds from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. These collections from clients are typically disbursed from one to 30 days after receipt, with some funds being held for up to 120 days. We typically invest funds held for clients in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper and certificates of deposit until they are paid to the a pplicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. We expect that interest earned on funds held for clients will increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. The amou nt of interest we earn from the investment of client funds is also impacted by changes in interest rates. Implementation and Other. Implementation and other revenues are comprised of implementation fees for the deployment of our solution and other revenues from sales of time clocks as part of our time and attendance services. Non-refundable implementation fees are charged to new clients at inception and upon the addition of certain incremental applications for existing clients. These fees range from 10% to 30% of the annualized value of the transaction. Implementation revenues are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the life of the client, which is estimated to be 10 years, and other revenues are recognized upon shipment of time clocks. Implementation and other revenues comprised approximately 1.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of expenses related to hosting and supporting our applications, hardware costs, systems support and technology and depreciation and amortization. These costs include employee-related expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) and other expenses related to client support, bank charges for processing ACH transactions, certain implementation expenses, delivery charges and paper costs. They also include our cost for time clocks sold and ongoing technology and support costs related to our systems. The amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to cost of revenues is determined based upon an estimate of assets used to support our operations. Administrative Expenses Administrative expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and depreciation and amortization. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses for our direct sales and marketing staff (such as commissions and bonuses and non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), marketing expenses and other related costs. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) for our development staff, net of capitalized software costs for internally developed software. We expect to grow our research and development efforts as we continue to broaden our payroll and HR solution offerings and extend our technological solutions by investing in the development of new applications and introducing them to new and existing clients. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of (i) the amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to administrative expenses (based upon an estimate of assets used to support our selling, general and administrative functions) and (ii) amortization of intangible assets. Net Loss on Early Repayment of Debt During 2014, we wrote off $4.1 million related to the discount associated with the repayment of certain related party debt. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest on debt related to our corporate headquarters and, with respect to the year ended December 31, 2014 only, related party debt. Other Income, net Other income, net includes interest earned on our own funds and any gain or loss on the sale or disposal of fixed assets. Prior to April 1, 2016, other income, net also included interest earned on funds held for clients. 31 Provision for Income Taxes Our consolidated financial statements include a provision for income taxes incurred for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as for any operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected consolidated statements of income data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands) Revenues Recurring $ 323,548 $ 219,987 $ 148,207 Implementation and other 5,593 4,666 2,722 Total revenues 329,141 224,653 150,929 Cost of revenues Operating expenses 48,268 31,790 24,694 Depreciation and amortization 5,798 3,683 2,624 Total cost of revenues 54,066 35,473 27,318 Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 119,258 92,554 63,547 Research and development 20,966 8,627 4,325 General and administrative 69,046 47,826 35,501 Depreciation and amortization 7,834 5,738 4,538 Total administrative expenses 217,104 154,745 107,911 Total operating expenses 271,170 190,218 135,229 Operating income 57,971 34,435 15,700 Interest expense (1,036 ) (1,427 ) (3,421 ) Net loss on early repayment of debt (4,044 ) Other income, net 308 517 1,421 Income before income taxes 57,243 33,525 9,656 Provision for income taxes 13,403 12,580 3,993 Net income $ 43,840 $ 20,945 $ 5,663 32 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Revenues Recurring 98.3 % 97.9 % 98.2 % Implementation and other 1.7 % 2.1 % 1.8 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues Operating expenses 14.6 % 14.2 % 16.4 % Depreciation and amortization 1.8 % 1.6 % 1.7 % Total cost of revenues 16.4 % 15.8 % 18.1 % Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 36.2 % 41.2 % 42.1 % Research and development 6.4 % 3.8 % 2.9 % General and administrative 21.0 % 21.3 % 23.5 % Depreciation and amortization 2.4 % 2.6 % 3.0 % Total administrative expenses 66.0 % 68.9 % 71.5 % Total operating expenses 82.4 % 84.7 % 89.6 % Operating income 17.6 % 15.3 % 10.4 % Interest expense (0.3 %) (0.6 %) (2.3 %) Net loss on early repayment of debt 0.0 % 0.0 % (2.7 %) Other income, net 0.1 % 0.2 % 1.0 % Income before income taxes 17.4 % 14.9 % 6.4 % Provision for income taxes 4.1 % 5.6 % 2.6 % Net income 13.3 % 9.3 % 3.8 % Revenues Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (in thousands) Recurring $ 323,548 $ 219,987 $ 148,207 47% 48% Implementation and other 5,593 4,666 2,722 20% 71% Total revenues $ 329,141 $ 224,653 $ 150,929 47% 49% Total revenues were $329.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $224.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, representing an increase of $104.4 million, or 47%. The increase in total revenues was due to several factors, including (i) the addition of clients in mature sales offices, which are offices that have been open for at least 24 months, as well as contributions from sales offices that are reaching maturity, (ii) the addition of new clients in more recently opened sales offices, (iii) the sale of additional applications to our existing clients, (iv) additional revenues in the first quarter attributable to the strong performance of our tax form filing business (including additional revenues from the first year of ACA-related filings), (v) an increase in average revenues per client as we continued to sell our applications to larger clients and (vi) growth in the number of employees of our clients. In addition, during the second quarter of 2016, we elected to change our accounting policy for recording interest income earned on funds held for clients, such that as of April 1, 2016, interest earned in the period between receipt and disbursement of client funds is recorded as recurring revenue. Prior to April 1, 2016, this interest income was recorded as other income, net. As a result of increased sales, implementation and other revenues, a component of total revenues, increased to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, from $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, representing an increase of $0.9 million, or 20%. Total revenues were $224.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $150.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of $73.8 million, or 49%. The increase in total revenues was due to several factors, including (i) the addition of clients in mature sales offices, as well as contributions from sales offices that are reaching maturity, (ii) the addition of new clients in more recently opened sales offices, (iii) the introduction and sale of additional applications to our existing clients, 33 (iv) growth in the number of employees of our clients, (v) an increase in average revenues per client as we continued to sell our applications to larger clients, (vi) additional revenues in the first quarter attributable to the strong performance of our tax for m filing business and (vii) additional revenues in the fourth quarter resulting from clients seeking to accelerate implementation of our Enhanced ACA application that we believe would have typically deferred implementation until after year-end. As a result of increased sales, i mplementation and other revenues, a component of total revenues, increased to $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 from $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing an increase of $2.0 million, or 71%. Expenses The following table presents the non-cash stock-based compensation expense, resulting from stock-based awards, that is recorded in our consolidated statements of income: Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (in thousands) Non-cash stock-based compensation expense: Operating expenses $ 2,217 $ 235 $ 32 843 % 634 % Sales and marketing 3,656 559 166 554 % 237 % Research and development 836 104 16 704 % 550 % General and administrative 15,837 2,112 498 650 % 324 % Total non-cash stock-based compensation expense $ 22,546 $ 3,010 $ 712 649 % 323 % During the year ended December 31, 2016, our non-cash stock-based compensation expense increased $19.5 million, primarily due to the issuance and subsequent vesting of restricted common stock with market-based vesting conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2015, our non-cash stock-based compensation expense increased $2.3 million primarily due to the issuance of additional shares of restricted common stock, during 2015, whose grant-date fair value was greater than shares previously issued. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (in thousands) Operating expenses $ 48,268 $ 31,790 $ 24,694 52% 29% Depreciation and amortization 5,798 3,683 2,624 57% 40% Total cost of revenues $ 54,066 $ 35,473 $ 27,318 52% 30% Cost of revenues was $54.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, representing an increase of $18.6 million, or 52%. The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to a $12.3 million increase in employee costs, which consisted of a $10.3 million increase in expenses related to an increase in the number of operating personnel and a $2.0 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, shipping fees and ACH fees each increased $1.3 million in connection with increased sales. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.1 million, or 57%, primarily due to the development of technology, purchases of other assets and the construction of assets in connection with the expansion of our headquarters. Cost of revenues was $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $27.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing an increase of $8.2 million, or 30%. The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to a $5.4 million increase in employee costs related to additional operating personnel, a $0.7 million increase in shipping fees and a $0.3 million increase in ACH expenses, all of which were related to increased sales. In addition, depreciation and amortization expense increased $1.1 million, or 40%, primarily due to technology developed and other additional assets purchased. 34 Administrative Expenses Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 119,258 $ 92,554 $ 63,547 29% 46% Research and development 20,966 8,627 4,325 143% 99% General and administrative 69,046 47,826 35,501 44% 35% Depreciation and amortization 7,834 5,738 4,538 37% 26% Total administrative costs $ 217,104 $ 154,745 $ 107,911 40% 43% Total administrative expenses were $217.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $154.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, representing an increase of $62.4 million, or 40%. Sales and marketing expenses increased $26.7 million primarily due to a $19.8 million increase in employee-related expenses, including commissions and bonuses, and a $3.1 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, recruiting and training for sales and marketing increased $2.3 million due to an increase in the number of sales personnel. Research and development expenses increased by $12.3 million due to a $11.6 million increase in expenses related to an increase in the number of research and development personnel and a $0.7 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Although we expect research and development expenses to continue to gradually increase as we hire more personnel to support our growth, we expect that research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues will remain relatively consistent in future periods. General and administrative expenses increased by $21.2 million primarily due to a $13.7 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation and a $7.5 million increase in employee related expenses. Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.1 million primarily due to assets purchased and constructed, as well as additional technology developed. Total administrative expenses were $154.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $107.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing an increase of $46.8 million, or 43%. Sales and marketing expenses increased $29.0 million primarily due to a $14.9 million increase in commission and bonuses and a $9.9 million increase in employee-related expenses, in each case resulting from increased sales, and a $0.8 million increase in recruiting and training expenses related to an increase in the number of sales personnel. Research and development expenses increased by $4.3 million primarily due to an increase in the number of research and development personnel. General and administrative expenses increased by $12.3 million primarily due to a $6.8 million increase in employee-related expenses, a $1.8 million increase in accounting, compliance, legal and insurance expense, an increase of $0.6 million in employee travel expenses and an increase of $0.5 million in telecommunications expenses related to expansion of our company headquarters. Depreciation and amortization increased by $1.2 million primarily due to assets purchased and additional technology developed. Expenditures for software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a three-year period on a straight-line basis. The table below sets forth the amounts of capitalized and expensed research and development cost for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (in thousands) Capitalized portion of research and development $ 8,817 $ 4,317 $ 2,204 104% 96% Expensed portion of research and development 20,966 8,627 4,325 143% 99% Total research and development costs $ 29,783 $ 12,944 $ 6,529 130% 98% Provision for Income Taxes For the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, income tax expense decreased as a percentage of revenue compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2015. The decrease primarily resulted from the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payment awards due to the Companys adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). See Note 2 under Adoption of New Pronouncements for further discussion in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-09. 35 Quarterly Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of income data for each of the 12 quarters within the three-year period ended December 31, 2016. The information for each of these quarters has been prepared on the same basis as the audited annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and, in the opinion of management, includes all adjustments, which includes only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for a full year or any future period (in thousands). Three Months Ended Dec 31, 2016 Sep 30, 2016 Jun 30, 2016 Mar 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Sep 30, 2015 Jun 30, 2015 Mar 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Sep 30, 2014 Jun 30, 2014 Mar 31, 2014 Revenues Recurring $ 86,295 $ 75,857 $ 72,492 $ 88,904 $ 63,583 $ 54,233 $ 47,820 $ 54,351 $ 43,177 $ 35,910 $ 32,666 $ 36,454 Implementation and other 1,515 1,468 1,388 1,222 1,535 1,107 1,153 871 863 688 640 531 Total revenues 87,810 77,325 73,880 90,126 65,118 55,340 48,973 55,222 44,040 36,598 33,306 36,985 Cost of revenues Operating expenses 13,777 13,227 10,479 10,785 9,221 7,964 7,134 7,471 6,847 5,798 5,757 6,292 Depreciation and amortization 1,705 1,521 1,386 1,186 1,041 945 887 810 748 638 608 630 Total cost of revenues 15,482 14,748 11,865 11,971 10,262 8,909 8,021 8,281 7,595 6,436 6,365 6,922 Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 36,556 29,274 24,766 28,662 30,810 23,774 16,741 21,229 19,310 14,856 13,700 15,681 Research and development 6,672 6,232 4,202 3,860 2,504 2,349 1,907 1,867 1,447 1,059 937 882 General and administrative 14,163 24,457 15,220 15,206 13,750 11,996 10,096 11,984 9,685 8,410 8,138 9,268 Depreciation and amortization 2,256 2,032 1,823 1,723 1,558 1,457 1,400 1,323 1,216 1,159 1,072 1,091 Total administrative expenses 59,647 61,995 46,011 49,451 48,622 39,576 30,144 36,403 31,658 25,484 23,847 26,922 Total operating expenses 75,129 76,743 57,876 61,422 58,884 48,485 38,165 44,684 39,253 31,920 30,212 33,844 Operating income 12,681 582 16,004 28,704 6,234 6,855 10,808 10,538 4,787 4,678 3,094 3,141 Interest expense (303 ) (252 ) (170 ) (311 ) (360 ) (343 ) (392 ) (332 ) (342 ) (338 ) (674 ) (2,067 ) Net loss on early repayment of debt (4,044 ) Other income (expense), net 371 (213 ) 116 34 367 98 19 33 26 39 587 769 Income (loss) before income taxes 12,749 117 15,950 28,427 6,241 6,610 10,435 10,239 4,471 4,379 (1,037 ) 1,843 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 4,116 (6,081 ) 5,529 9,839 1,084 2,763 4,489 4,244 1,965 1,689 (444 ) 783 Net income (loss) $ 8,633 $ 6,198 $ 10,421 $ 18,588 $ 5,157 $ 3,847 $ 5,946 $ 5,995 $ 2,506 $ 2,690 $ (593 ) $ 1,060 Quarterly Revenues Trends Excluding changes in quarterly revenues due to seasonal factors, our quarterly revenues increased sequentially for the periods presented due to a combination of factors, including the addition of clients in mature sales offices, as well as contributions from sales offices that are reaching maturity, the addition of new clients in more recently opened sales offices and the sale of additional applications to our existing clients. There are also seasonal factors that affect our revenues. Recurring revenues include revenues relating to the annual processing of payroll forms such as Form W-2 and Form 1099, as well as the processing and filing of ACA-related forms. Because these forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year, first quarter revenue and margins are generally higher than subsequent quarters. In addition, unscheduled payroll runs at the end of the year often result in increased revenue in the fourth quarter. Quarterly Expenses Trends Sales and marketing expenses are generally higher in the fourth and first quarters as sales representatives achieve sales goals throughout the year, resulting in higher commission rates. These sales goals reset annually on February 1. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $60.2 million and $50.7 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised primarily of demand deposit accounts, 36 money market funds and certificates of deposit. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. We have historically financed our operations from cash flows generated from operations, cash from the sale of debt and equity securities and borrowings under our loans. Since inception, we have raised $125.1 million of equity capital, $64.3 million of which was the net proceeds raised in our initial public offering that closed in April 2014. We incurred related party debt as part of corporate reorganizations that occurred in April 2012 and January 2014. Such debt has since been repaid. Although we have funded most of the costs for ongoing construction projects at our corporate headquarters from available cash, we have incurred indebtedness for a portion of these costs. Further, to date, all purchases under our stock repurchase plan have been paid for from available cash and, to the extent we repurchase additional shares in the future, we expect to continue to use cash. Recent Liquidity Developments Withholding Shares to Cover Taxes . During the year ended December 31, 2016, we withheld 302,424 shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations with respect to the delivery of vested shares of restricted stock to certain employees. Our payment of the taxes on behalf of those employees resulted in an expenditure of $14.4 million in cash and, as such, we subtract the amounts attributable to such withheld shares from the aggregate amount available for future purchases under our stock repurchase plan. Stock Repurchase Plan . On May 26, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan under which we were authorized to purchase (in the aggregate) up to $50 million of our outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share, over a 24-month period. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we repurchased an aggregate of 1.1 million shares of common stock (including shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations, as discussed above) for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million. On February 8, 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors amended and extended this stock repurchase plan, such that we are authorized to purchase (in the aggregate) up to an additional $50.0 million of common stock through January 2019. Oklahoma City Economic Development Trust Incentive . In the first quarter of 2016, we entered into a local incentive package with the Oklahoma City Economic Development Trust worth up to approximately $1.2 million, depending on the number of new jobs we create for local employees through 2021 and the average annual salary level for such employees. 2021 Consolidated Loan. As of December 31, 2016, we had a term note under the 2021 Consolidated Loan due to Kirkpatrick Bank that matures on May 30, 2021 (the 2021 Consolidated Loan) with an outstanding principal balance of $25.0 million. Under the 2021 Consolidated Loan, interest is payable monthly and accrues at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum. The 2021 Consolidated Loan is secured by a mortgage covering our headquarters and certain personal property relating to our headquarters. We are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants under the 2021 Consolidated Loan, including maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges (defined as current maturities of long-term debt, interest expense, rent expense and distributions) of greater than 1.2 to 1.0, which is measured on a quarterly basis. Further, until amounts under the 2021 Consolidated Loan are repaid, we may not, subject to certain exceptions, (i) create any mortgages or liens, (ii) make any loans, advances or extensions of credit with certain affiliates or enter into any other transactions with certain affiliates, (iii) lease any mortgaged property, (iv) make any distributions as long as an event of default exists, (v) make any material change in methods of accounting, (vi) enter into any sale and leaseback arrangement, (vii) amend, modify, restate, cancel or terminate our organizational documents, (viii) sell, transfer or convey any mortgaged property or (ix) incur funded outside debt. An event of default under the 2021 Consolidated Loan includes, among other events, (i) failure to pay principal or interest when due, (ii) breaches of certain covenants, (iii) any failure to meet the required financial covenants and (iv) an institution of bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation or receivership. As of December 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the 2021 Consolidated Loan. 2015 Construction Loan and 2023 Term Loan. On May 13, 2015, we entered into a loan agreement with Kirkpatrick Bank to partially finance the construction of our third headquarters building (the 2015 Construction Loan). The 2015 Construction Loan allowed us to borrow a maximum aggregate principal amount equal to the lesser of (i) $11.0 million or (ii) 80% of the appraised value of the constructed property. On August 1, 2016, we converted the $5.0 million outstanding principal balance of the 2015 Construction Loan into an 84-month term loan (2023 Term Loan) with interest payable monthly and accruing at a fixed rate of 3.4% per annum. At December 31, 2016, the principal balance outstanding on the 2023 Term Loan was $4.9 million. The 2023 Term Loan matures on August 31, 2023 and is secured by a mortgage covering our headquarters and certain personal property relating to our headquarters. The 2023 Term Loan includes the same covenants as those disclosed above with respect to the 2021 Consolidated Loan. We were in compliance with all of the covenants as of December 31, 2016. 2016 Construction Loan. On August 2, 2016, we entered into a new construction loan with Kirkpatrick Bank, which is available to finance the ongoing construction of a fourth headquarters building and new parking garage (the 2016 Construction Loan). As of December 31, 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under the 2016 Construction Loan. The 2016 Construction Loan allows us to borrow a maximum aggregate principal amount equal to the lesser of (i) $28.6 million or (ii) 80% of the appraised value of the constructed properties. The 2016 Construction Loan matures on the earlier of the completion of construction or February 2, 2019, with interest accruing at the greater of (i) the prime rate, plus 50 basis points or (ii) 4.0%. At maturity, the outstanding principal 37 balance of the 2016 Constructi on Loan, if any, will be automatically converted to an 84-month term loan that will accrue fixed interest at the prevailing 7/20 London Interbank Offered Rate swap interest rate in effect as of the commencement date, plus 225 basis points Cash Flow Analysis Our cash flows from operating activities have historically been significantly impacted by profitability, implementation revenues received but deferred, research and development, and our investment in sales and marketing to drive growth. Our ability to meet future liquidity needs will be driven by our operating performance and the extent of continued investment in our operations. Failure to generate sufficient revenues and related cash flows could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our liquidity needs and achieve our business objectives. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. Depending on certain growth opportunities, we may choose to accelerate investments in sales and marketing, acquisitions, technology and services. Actual future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our future revenues, cash from operating activities and the level of expenditures in all areas of our business, and may use available cash to repurchase shares of our common stock. As part of our payroll and payroll tax filing services, we collect funds from our clients for federal, state and local employment taxes, which we remit to the appropriate tax agencies. We invest these funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper and certificates of deposit from which we earn interest income during the period between their receipt and disbursement. Our cash flows from investing and financing activities are influenced by the amount of funds held for clients, which varies significantly from quarter to quarter. The balance of the funds we hold depends on our clients payroll calendars, and therefore such balance changes from period to period in accordance with the timing of each payroll cycle. Our cash flows from financing activities are also affected by the extent to which we use available cash to purchase shares of common stock under our stock repurchase plan as well as restricted stock vesting events that may result in the Company paying withholding taxes on behalf of certain employees. The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014: Year Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 Net cash provided by (used in): (in thousands) Operating activities $ 98,953 $ 42,972 $ 22,337 130 % 92 % Investing activities (205,051 ) (52,324 ) (219,050 ) 292 % (76 %) Financing activities 115,542 34,922 208,495 231 % (83 %) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 9,444 $ 25,570 $ 11,782 (63 %) 117 % Operating Activities For the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities was $99.0 million. The net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from net income of $43.8 million, an adjustment for non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $22.5 million, an adjustment for depreciation and amortization of $13.6 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $10.7 million, a decrease in income taxes, net of $6.1 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $3.9 million, an increase in accrued payroll and vacation of $1.9 million and a decrease in accounts receivable of $1.0 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred income tax asset, net of $1.8 million and an increase in accounts payable of $1.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net cash provided by operating activities was $43.0 million. The net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from net income of $20.9 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $9.7 million, an adjustment for depreciation and amortization of $9.4 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $4.0 million, an increase in accrued commissions and bonuses of $3.6 million and non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $3.0 million, partially offset by an increase in income taxes, net of $5.8 million, an increase in prepaid expenses of $1.6 million and a decrease in deferred income tax liability, net of $1.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2014, net cash provided by operating activities was $22.3 million. The net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from net income of $5.7 million, an adjustment for depreciation and amortization of $7.2 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $6.8 million related to increased implementation fees, and the write off of the debt discount costs of $4.1 million. 38 Invest ing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities was $205.1 million. The net cash used in investing activities resulted primarily from an increase in funds held for clients of $161.5 million related to the collection of client taxes and $43.8 million of capital expenditures related to investments in property and equipment. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net cash used in investing activities was $52.3 million. The net cash used in investing activities resulted primarily from a $36.1 million increase in funds held for clients related to collection of client taxes and $16.5 million of capital expenditures related to investments in property and equipment, offset by a decrease of $0.4 million in restricted cash. For the year ended December 31, 2014, net cash used in investing activities was $219.1 million. The net cash used in investing activities resulted primarily from a $204.8 million increase in funds held for clients related to collection of client taxes and $14.3 million of capital expenditures related to investments in real property, software development and facilities and equipment. Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $115.5 million. The net cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from an increase of $161.5 million in client funds obligation related to collection of client taxes, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $5.0 million, partially offset by open-market repurchases of common stock of $35.6 million, withholding taxes paid related to net share settlements of $14.4 million and principal payments on long-term debt of $1.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $34.9 million. The net cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from an increase of $36.1 million in client funds obligation related to collection of client taxes, offset by $1.1 million of principal payments on long-term debt and $0.1 million of payment for debt issuance costs. For the year ended December 31, 2014, net cash provided by financing activities was $208.5 million. The net cash provided by financing activities resulted primarily from an increase in client funds obligation of $204.8 million related to collection of client taxes, gross proceeds from our initial public offering of $62.8 million and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $6.5 million, which were partially offset by principal payments on long-term debt of $65.7 million. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of long-term debt and leases for office space. We disclose our long-term debt in Note 5 and our commitments and contingencies in Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2016, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows: Payments Due by Period Less More than 1-3 3-5 than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Long-term debt obligations: 2021 Consolidated Loan $ 24,950 $ 934 $ 1,986 $ 22,030 Interest on 2021 Consolidated Loan 4,944 1,183 2,225 1,536 2023 Term Loan 4,874 179 356 378 3,961 Interest on 2023 Term Loan 990 167 315 289 219 Operating lease obligations: Facilities space 21,229 5,953 10,501 3,666 1,109 Total $ 56,987 $ 8,416 $ 15,383 $ 27,899 $ 5,289 We may continue to lease additional office space to support our growth. In addition, many of our existing lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations include payments due during any renewal period provided for in the lease where the lease imposes a penalty for failure to renew. 39 The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we continually evaluate our estimates and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results may materially differ from these estimates made by management under different assumptions and conditions. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates, and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position, are described below. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Adoption of New Pronouncements In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-09, which simplified the accounting related to certain aspects of share-based payments to employees. The new guidance requires excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recognized within the income statement when share-based payment awards vest or are settled. In addition, cash flows related to excess tax benefits are not separately classified as a financing activity apart from other income tax cash flows in the statement of cash flows. This guidance also allows us to repurchase more of an employees vesting shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting, clarifies that all cash payments made to taxing authorities on an employees behalf for withheld shares be presented as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows, and provides an accounting policy election to account for award forfeitures as they occur or continue to estimate forfeitures. We elected to early adopt the new guidance in the third quarter of 2016. As such, we are required to present any adjustments as of January 1, 2016, the beginning of the annual period that includes the interim period of adoption. The primary impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-09 was the recognition of excess tax benefits in our provision for income taxes of $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, which otherwise would have been recognized as paid in capital. Early adoption had no impact on retained earnings as of January 1, 2016, or on the comparability of the prior period financial statements as there were no excess tax benefits recognized during 2015. We elected to continue to estimate expected forfeitures to determine the amount of stock compensation cost to be recognized in each period. The presentation requirements for cash flows related to excess benefits and for cash flows related to employee taxes paid for withheld shares had no impact on any of the periods previously presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We adopted on a retrospective basis the recently issued guidance by the FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03, Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU 2015-03). ASU 2015-03 requires companies with debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to present such issuance costs in the consolidated balance sheets as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability. Our adoption of ASU 2015-03 resulted in a reclassification that decreased deposits and other assets by $0.1 million and decreased net long-term debt, less current portion by $0.1 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015. The adoption of ASU 2015-03 had no impact on our stockholders equity or the results of our operations. Revenue Recognition Our total revenues are comprised of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues. We recognize revenues in accordance with accounting standards for software and service companies when all of the following criteria have been met: There is persuasive evidence of an arrangement; The service has been or is being provided to the customer; Collection of the fees is reasonably assured; and The amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Recurring revenues are derived primarily from our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications. These services are rendered during each clients payroll period with the agreed-upon fee being charged and collected as part of the clients payroll. Revenues are recognized at time of billing of each clients payroll period. Collectability is reasonably assured as the fees are collected through ACH as part of the clients payroll cycle or through direct wire 40 transfer, which minimizes the default risk. Our implementation and other revenues represent non-refundable conversion fees which are charged to new clients to offset the expense of new client set-up and revenues from sale of time clocks as part of ou r employee time and attendance services. Because these conversion fees and sale of time clocks relate to our recurring revenues, we have evaluated such arrangements under the accounting guidance that governs multiple element arrangements. For arrangements with multiple elements, we evaluate whether each element represents a separate unit of accounting. In order to treat deliverables in a multiple element arrangement as separate units of accounting, the deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. If the deliverables have standalone value upon delivery, we account for each deliverable separately and revenue is recognized for the respective deliverables as they are delivered. If one or more of the deliverables does not have standalone value upon delivery, the deliverables that do not have standalone value are generally combined with the final deliverable within the arrangement and treated as a single unit of accounting. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we determined that there was no standalone value associated with the upfront conversion fees as they did not have value to our clients on a standalone basis nor were they offered as an individual service; therefore, the conversion fees were deferred and are recognized ratably over the estimated life of our clients, based on our historical client attrition rate, which we estimate to be ten years. Revenues from the sale of time clocks are recognized when they are delivered. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is not amortized, but we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or earlier if, at the reporting unit level, an indicator of impairment arises. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. If impairment exists, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Our business is largely homogeneous and, as a result, goodwill is associated with one reporting unit. We have selected June 30 as our annual goodwill impairment testing date and determined there was no impairment as of June 30, 2016. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, there were no indicators of impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. We have determined that there is no impairment of long-lived assets for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. Restricted Common Stock In connection with a corporate reorganization (the 2014 Reorganization) completed in anticipation of our initial public offering (IPO), on January 1, 2014 we issued 8,121,101 shares of restricted stock (the 2014 Restricted Stock) under the Paycom Software, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP) and 1,148,520 shares of common stock, in each case upon conversion of outstanding incentive units of Paycom Payroll Holdings, LLC (Holdings). Vested incentive units were converted to shares of common stock and 2014 Restricted Stock at various conversion ratios that ranged from approximately 1:02 to 1:24. Unvested incentive units were converted to shares of 2014 Restricted Stock at various conversion ratios that ranged from 1:24 to 1:47. The conversion ratios were determined based on the underlying conditions of the pre-conversion incentive units and reflected any pre-existing vesting conditions. Given the absence of a public trading market for our common stock and incentive units prior to our IPO, and in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the AICPA), Audit and Accounting Practice Aid Series: Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation, our Board of Directors exercised reasonable judgment and considered numerous factors existing at such time in order to determine the best estimate of the fair value of the 2014 Restricted Stock and incentive units, including: Valuation analyses performed by an unrelated third-party specialist (including the application of appropriate valuation techniques and inputs); Characteristics and specific terms of the shares as noted in the equity grant agreements; Value of the shares as determined by the absence of a liquidation value on the date of grant, the ability to participate in our future profits, growth and appreciation and the lack of an exercise price for the shares; Lack of marketability of our common stock; Our historical and actual operating and financial performance; 41 Our stage of development; Revenue and expense projections; Likelihood of achieving a liquidating event (IPO or sale); Market performance of comparable publicly traded companies; Industry factors; and Overall U.S. and global economic and capital market conditions. We used a Monte Carlo simulation model to value the 2014 Restricted Stock and for restricted stock with market-based vesting conditions issued after our IPO. Our simulation model requires various subjective assumptions as inputs, including expected life, volatility, risk-free interest rates, and the expected dividend yield. The assumptions used in the simulation model represent our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of our judgment as follows: Risk-free interest rate For purposes of valuing shares of 2014 Restricted Stock, we determined the risk-free interest rate based on the implied yield available on 5 year U.S. Treasury securities. For purposes of valuing shares of restricted stock issued following our IPO, we determine the risk-free interest rate based on an implied yield available on U.S. Treasury Securities ranging from 5 to 10 year maturities, with a term equivalent to that of the restricted stock as of the valuation date. Volatility We determined the volatility input based on the historical volatilities of comparable guideline companies. To determine the comparable guideline companies, we consider cloud-based application providers and select those that are similar to us in nature of services provided. We intend to continue to consistently apply this process using the same or similar public companies until information regarding the volatility of our own pricing changes, or unless circumstances change such that the identified companies are no longer similar to us, in which case, more suitable companies whose share prices are publicly available would be utilized in the calculation. Expected life The expected life represents the period that the shares of restricted stock are expected to be outstanding. We determined the expected life assumption based on the vesting terms and contractual terms of the restricted stock. Expected dividend yield We have not paid dividends and therefore apply an expected dividend yield of 0%. Our Board of Directors will determine if and when dividends will be declared and paid in the future based on our financial position at the relevant time. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification, Section 718-20-53-3 indicates that if the terms and conditions of an existing equity incentive compensation plan are to be modified, then an entity should record additional compensation cost for any incremental value associated with the modification. The incremental compensation cost is measured as the excess of the fair value of the modified awards over the fair value of the original awards immediately before its terms are modified. Based on the terms of the 2014 Restricted Stock, we concluded that there was a modification of the existing equity incentive units. Based upon a valuation by an independent third-party, management determined there was no additional compensation cost created in the conversion, as the value of the incentive units given up was less than the value of the 2014 Restricted Stock received. As such, there was no additional compensation recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we issued an aggregate of 741,931 shares of restricted stock under the LTIP to all of our executive officers and certain employees (the 2015 Restricted Stock). During the year ended December 31, 2016, we issued (i) an aggregate of 1,575,429 shares of restricted stock under the LTIP to all of our executive officers, certain employees and certain members of our Board of Directors (the 2016 Restricted Stock and, collectively with the 2014 Restricted Stock and the 2015 Restricted Stock, the LTIP Stock). All shares of LTIP Stock are subject to either time-based or market-based vesting conditions. The following tables present a summary of the grant-date fair values and related assumptions with respect to shares of LTIP Stock. The grant-date fair values were determined based on the Monte Carlo Simulation model. Year Ended December 31, 2014 Grant-date fair value of 2014 Restricted Stock $5.76 - $36.03 Risk-free interest rate 1.02% Volatility factor 30.0% Expected life (in years) 3.5 42 Year Ended December 31, 2015 Grant-date fair value of 2015 Restricted Stock $21.76 - $33.33 Risk-free interest rate 2.20% Volatility factor 26.0% Expected life (in years) 3.6 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Grant-date fair value of 2016 Restricted Stock $23.15 - $49.34 Risk-free interest rate 1.28% - 1.36% Volatility factor 21.0% - 23.0% Expected life (in years) 2.7 In addition to assumptions used in the simulation model, we are required to estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for those awards that are expected to vest. Our forfeiture estimate is based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures. We will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover, and other factors. The following table presents information about the LTIP Stock: Number of shares of LTIP Fair value Grant Date Stock granted per share (1) January 1, 2014 8,121,101 $ 0.25 July 8, 2015 741,931 $ 27.65 April 15, 2016 847,928 $ 27.99 May 2, 2016 5,132 $ 38.95 October 4, 2016 721,100 $ 36.96 November 10, 2016 1,269 $ 39.36 (1) With respect to shares granted on January 1, 2014, July 8, 2015, April 15, 2016 and October 4, 2016, represents the weighted average fair value per share, taking into account both time-based and market-based vesting conditions. Shares of 2014 Restricted Stock that were subject to time-based vesting conditions retained substantially the same time-based vesting conditions as the respective tranche of incentive units from which they were converted. The following tables show the vesting schedule for shares of 2014 Restricted Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2016 that are subject to time-based vesting conditions: Number of Shares of Year Ending December 31, LTIP Stock to Vest 2017 570,706 2018 97,541 Total 668,247 43 The following table shows the vesting schedule for shares of 2015 Restricted Stock and 2016 Restricted Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2016 that are subject to time-based vesting conditions: Number of Shares of Year Ending December 31, LTIP Stock to Vest 2017 132,381 2018 207,347 2019 180,050 2020 126,189 2021 78,420 2022 36,880 Total 761,267 With respect to shares of 2014 Restricted Stock subject to market-based vesting conditions, 50% of such shares vested when the Companys Total Enterprise Value (as defined in the applicable restricted stock award agreement, TEV) reached $1.4 billion on December 1, 2014 and 50% of such shares vested when the Companys TEV reached $1.8 billion on March 2, 2015. With respect to shares of 2015 Restricted Stock subject to market-based vesting conditions (2015 Market-Based LTIP Stock), 50% of such shares vested when the Companys TEV reached $2.65 billion on August 1, 2016, and the remaining 50% will vest if the Companys TEV equals or exceeds $3.5 billion. The TEV threshold for shares of 2016 Restricted Stock subject to market-based vesting conditions (2016 Market-Based LTIP Stock) varies depending on the grant date. All shares of 2016 Market-Based LTIP Stock granted on April 15, 2016 vested when the Companys TEV reached $2.65 billion on July 28, 2016. Due to differences in the number of shares outstanding at the respective grant dates, which affected the TEV calculation, there was a two trading day gap between the vesting of shares of 2016 Market-Based LTIP Stock and shares of 2015 Market-Based LTIP Stock at the $2.65 billion TEV threshold. The remaining shares of 2016 Market-Based LTIP Stock are subject to TEV vesting thresholds of $3.9 billion and $4.2 billion. The following table shows the shares of 2015 Market-Based LTIP Stock and 2016 Market-Based LTIP Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2016 and the TEV vesting thresholds with respect to such shares: Number of Shares of Total Enterprise Value LTIP Stock to Vest $ 3,500,000,000 231,675 $ 3,900,000,000 253,375 $ 4,200,000,000 253,375 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This authoritative guidance includes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services. The FASB has since issued several additional amendments to this guidance. In April 2015, the FASB proposed a one year deferral of the effective date of the new revenue recognition standard for public and non-public entities reporting under U.S. GAAP and on July 9, 2015, the FASB approved the one year deferral. The effective date of the amended standard will begin in periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted but no earlier than for reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2016. The Company has an ongoing project to assess the impact of the standard that has been conducted with the assistance of an international accounting firm. The Company has not fully determined the impact of the new revenue recognition standard on its systems, processes and consolidated financial statements; however, we expect the new standard will have a material impact on the manner in which we account for certain costs to acquire new contracts (i.e., selling and commission costs) and costs to fulfill contracts (i.e., costs related to implementation services performed). Generally, as it relates to these types of costs, the provisions of the new standard will result in the deferral of these costs on the consolidated balance sheets and subsequently the amortizing of these costs to the consolidated statements of income over the expected life of our client relationships, which we have determined to be an average of 10 years. The Company is still evaluating whether implementation services contain an implied performance obligation in the form of a material right to the customer and if so, what impact that would have on the recognition of implementation revenues. We expect to complete our assessment process, including selecting a transition method for adoption, by the end of the third quarter of 2017 and will complete our implementation process prior to the adoption of this ASU on January 1, 2018. 44 In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. Under the new guidance, an entity should measure inventory (as defined within the scope of the guidance) at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The new guidance applies to all inventory except inventory measured using la st-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predicable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The new guidance is ef fective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Accordingly, the standard is effective for us on January 1, 2017. We do not anticipate that the adoption of this standar d will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The amendments in this guidance require all equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognized through net income (other than those accounted for under equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee). The amendments in this guidance also require an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments. In addition the amendments in this guidance eliminate the requirement to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet for public business entities. The new guidance is effective for us for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842). The purpose of the guidance is to increase the transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet as well as providing additional disclosure requirements related to leasing arrangements. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, though early adoption is permitted. Full retrospective application is prohibited. We anticipate that the adoption of this accounting standard will materially affect our consolidated balance sheets and may require changes to the system and processes that we use to account for leases. We have not yet made any decision on the timing of adoption or method of adoption with respect to the optional practical expedients. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income as supplemental measures to review and assess the performance of our core business operations and for planning purposes. We define (i) Adjusted EBITDA as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, net loss on early repayment of debt and certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations, and (ii) non-GAAP net income as net income plus non-cash stock-based compensation expense, net loss on early repayment of debt and certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations, each of which is adjusted for the effect of income taxes. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are metrics that provide investors with greater transparency to the information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. We believe these metrics are useful to investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core business operations across periods on a consistent basis, as well as comparisons with the results of peer companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure that provides useful information to management about the amount of cash available for reinvestment in our business, repurchasing common stock and other purposes. Management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in this Form 10-K, when viewed in combination with our results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business and performance. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are not measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income have limitations as analytical tools, and when assessing our operating performance, you should not consider Adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income in isolation, or as a substitute for net income or other consolidated statements of income data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income may not be comparable to similar titled measures of other companies and other companies may not calculate such measures in the same manner as we do. 45 The following tables reconcile net income to Adjusted EBITDA, net income to non-GAAP net income and earnings pe r share to non-GAAP net income per share on a basic and diluted basis: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 43,840 $ 20,945 $ 5,663 Interest expense 1,036 1,427 3,421 Provision for income taxes 13,403 12,580 3,993 Depreciation and amortization 13,632 9,421 7,162 EBITDA 71,911 44,373 20,239 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 22,546 3,010 712 Transaction expenses 685 2,004 Net loss on early repayment of debt 4,044 Adjusted EBITDA $ 94,457 $ 48,068 $ 26,999 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Net Income to non-GAAP net income: Net income $ 43,840 $ 20,945 $ 5,663 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 22,546 3,010 712 Transaction expenses 685 2,004 Net loss on early repayment of debt 4,044 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (14,790 ) (1,191 ) (2,795 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 51,596 $ 23,449 $ 9,628 Earnings per share, basic $ 0.76 $ 0.37 $ 0.11 Earnings per share, diluted $ 0.74 $ 0.36 $ 0.11 Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 0.90 $ 0.42 $ 0.19 Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 0.87 $ 0.40 $ 0.19 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 57,550,204 56,495,170 49,784,154 Diluted 58,968,099 57,919,700 51,857,309 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, basic: Earnings per share, basic $ 0.76 $ 0.37 $ 0.11 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 0.39 0.06 0.01 Transaction expenses 0.01 0.04 Net loss on early repayment of debt 0.08 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.25 ) (0.02 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 0.90 $ 0.42 $ 0.19 46 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, diluted: Earnings per share, diluted $ 0.74 $ 0.36 $ 0.11 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 0.38 0.05 0.01 Transaction expenses 0.01 0.04 Net loss on early repayment of debt 0.08 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.25 ) (0.02 ) (0.05 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 0.87 $ 0.40 $ 0.19