Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about the impact that COVID-19 has had on our business. Segment Information We operate in a single operating segment and a single reporting segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker function (which is 15 fulfilled by our chief executive officer) in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our chief executive officer allocates resources and assesses performance based upon financial information at the consolidated level. Since we operate in one operating segment, all required financial segment information is presented in the consolidated financial statements. Available Information Our internet address is www.paycom.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.paycom.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports can be found on our investor relations website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a public website, www.sec.gov, which includes information about and the filings of issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K, including those risks identified in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business If our security measures are breached, or unauthorized access to our clients or their employees sensitive data is otherwise obtained, our solution may not be perceived as being secure, clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solution, our ability to attract new clients may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients and their employees confidential and proprietary information, including personal identifying information, as well as financial and payroll data. HCM software is often targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our clients sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our clients or other third parties business operations. If cybercriminals are able to circumvent our security measures, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our clients sensitive data may be compromised. Certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures could be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, third-party or employee malfeasance or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention from our business and operations. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients to discontinue the use of our solution, prevent us from attracting new clients, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other actions or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any damage, failure or disruption of our SaaS network infrastructure or data centers could impair our ability to effectively provide our solution, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our SaaS network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our solution through standard web browsers, smart phones, tablets and other web-enabled devices and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our solution. We serve all of our clients from our three fully redundant data centers located in Oklahoma and Texas. Our SaaS network infrastructure and data centers are vulnerable to damage, failure and disruption. In the future, we may experience issues with our computing and communications infrastructure or data centers caused by the following factors: human error; 16 telecommunications failures or outages from third-party providers; computer viruses or cyber-attacks; break-ins or other security breaches; acts of terrorism, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism or other misconduct; tornadoes, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters; power loss; and other unforeseen interruptions or damages. If our SaaS network infrastructure or our clients ability to access our solution is interrupted, client and employee data from recent transactions may be permanently lost, and we could be exposed to significant claims by clients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds payable to employees or tax authorities. Further, any adverse changes in service levels at our data centers resulting from damage to or failure of our data centers could result in disruptions in our services. Any significant instances of system downtime or performance problems at our data centers could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract new clients, prevent us from gaining new or additional business from our current clients, or cause our current clients to terminate their use of our solution, any of which would adversely impact our revenues. In addition, if our network infrastructure and data centers fail to support increased capacity due to growth in our business, our clients may experience interruptions in the availability of our solution. Such interruptions may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to clients or adversely affect our retention of existing clients, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new applications, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future disruptive technologies, we might not remain competitive and our business could be adversely affected. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. In order to attract new clients and increase revenues from existing clients, we need to enhance, add new features to and improve our existing applications and introduce new applications. The success of any enhancements or new features and applications depends on several factors, including timely completion and introduction and market acceptance. We may expend significant time and resources developing and pursuing sales of a particular enhancement or application that may not result in revenues in the anticipated time frame or at all, or may not result in revenue growth sufficient to offset increased expenses. Further, changing legal and regulatory requirements may delay the development or introduction of enhancements or new applications or render certain of our applications obsolete. If we are unable to successfully develop enhancements, new features or new applications to meet client needs, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, because our applications are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using internet tools and protocols, we must continuously modify and enhance our applications to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our current and future applications may become less marketable and less competitive or even obsolete. Our success is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver HCM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. The market for HCM software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. We expect competition to intensify in the future with the introduction of new technologies and new market entrants. Many of our current and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, more established relationships in the industry and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, some of these competitors may be able to: adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their product and service offerings more efficiently or rapidly; offer products and services that we may not offer individually or at all, or bundle products and services in a manner that provides them with a price advantage; 17 establish and maintain partnerships with third parties that enhance and expand their product offering to business clients and employees; take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities for expansion more readily; maintain a lower cost basis; adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing and sale of their products and services; and devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and our billing terms, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solution to maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We compete with firms that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but as demand for greater flexibility and access to information grows, we believe there will be increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other SaaS providers. Our competitors offer HCM solutions that may overlap with one, several or all categories of applications and include companies such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Ceridian HCM, Inc., Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Intuit, Inc., Insperity, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation, Paycor Inc., SAP SE, ServiceNow, Inc., Ultimate Kronos Group, Workday, Inc. and other local and regional providers . Competition in the HCM solutions market is primarily based on service responsiveness, application quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering and price. Many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger client bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, software vendors and distributors. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of HCM functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our solution. Further, some potential clients, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our deployment or technical support services, or if our solution fails to perform properly. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients, both with respect to our applications and the technical support provided to help our clients use the applications that address the needs of their businesses. We use our in-house deployment personnel to implement and configure our solution and provide support to our clients. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of our solution, the applications delivered or the support provided, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, our profitability might be negatively affected, and the clients dissatisfaction with our deployment or support service could harm our ability to sell additional applications to that client. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solution and applications and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Our clients have no obligation to continue to use our applications, and may choose not to continue to use our applications at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, our clients generally have the right to cancel their agreements with us for any or no reason by providing 30 days prior written notice. In the past, some of our clients have elected not to continue to use our applications. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect client retention, our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective clients, and, as a result, our business, operating results or financial condition. Further, our solution is inherently complex and may in the future contain, or develop, undetected defects or errors. Any defects in our applications could adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to sell our applications in the future and result in significant costs to us. The costs incurred in correcting any application defects may be substantial and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any defects in functionality or defects that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in: loss or delayed market acceptance and sales of our applications; termination of service agreements or loss of clients; credits, refunds or other liability to clients, including reimbursements for any fees or penalties assessed by regulatory agencies; breach of contract, breach of warranty or indemnification claims against us, which may result in litigation; diversion of development and service resources; 18 increased scrutiny of our solution from regulatory agencies; and injury to our reputation. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our applications could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Our clients might assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error, or other failure of our solution. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Any failures in the performance of our solution could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. The market for our solution among large companies may be limited if these companies demand customized features and functions that we do not offer. Prospective clients, especially larger companies, may require customized features and functions unique to their business processes that we do not offer. In order to ensure we meet these requirements, we may devote a significant amount of support and service resources to larger prospective clients, increasing the cost and time required to complete sales with no guarantee that these prospective clients will adopt our solution. Further, we may not be successful in implementing any customized features or functions. If prospective clients require customized features or functions that we do not offer, or that would be difficult for them to deploy themselves, the market for our solution will be more limited and our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent on the continued service of our key executives and, if we fail to retain such key executives, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued services of our senior management team, consisting of Chad Richison, Craig E. Boelte, Jeffrey D. York, Jon Evans and Bradley S. Smith. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to retain these key executives. Although the employment arrangements of certain of our key executives contain non-competition restrictions, our business could nonetheless be adversely affected if a key executive leaves Paycom and attempts to compete with us. In addition, we have not purchased key person life insurance on any members of our senior management team. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including software developers and skilled IT, sales, marketing and operational personnel, our ability to develop and market new and existing products and, in turn, increase our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new applications. As a result, we are heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified software developers and IT personnel with the requisite education, background and industry experience. In addition, to continue to execute our growth strategy, we must also attract and retain qualified sales, marketing and operational personnel capable of supporting a larger and more diverse client base. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors. This competition for qualified personnel may be amplified by new immigration laws or policies that could limit software companies ability to recruit internationally. Although such changes in immigration laws or policies would not have a significant direct impact on our workforce, the ensuing increase in demand for software developers and IT personnel could impair our ability to attract or retain skilled employees and/or significantly increase our costs to do so. Furthermore, identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our applications requires significant time, expense and attention, and it can take a substantial amount of time before our employees are fully trained and productive. The loss of the services of a significant number of employees could be disruptive to our development efforts, which may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose clients, increase operating expenses or divert managements attention to recruit replacements for the departed employees. 19 The failure to develop and maintain our brand cost-effectively could have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our solution and is an important element in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients. Successful promotion of our brand depends largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful applications at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities, including increased spending on our national media campaigns, may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new clients or retain our existing clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenues or incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent in part upon our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our applications and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products or services that compete with ours. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property. We have been involved in litigation in the past and litigation may be necessary in the future to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or control access to, and the distribution of, our solution and proprietary information, which could adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Considerable intellectual property development activity exists in our industry, and we expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of applications and competitors grows and the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property in technology areas relating to our solution or applications. In addition, we may increasingly be subject to trademark infringement claims as our presence grows in the marketplace. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. A claim of infringement may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover, or may be alleged to cover, some or all of our solution, applications or brands. The outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, any future litigation or claim of infringement could (i) cause us to enter into an unfavorable royalty or license agreement, pay ongoing royalties or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, (ii) require us to discontinue the sale of our solution or applications, (iii) require us to indemnify our clients or third-party service providers or (iv) require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solution or applications. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business and operations. The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights. Some of our applications use software covered by open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional development resources to change our applications. In addition, if we were to combine our applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our applications. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to redesign our applications, discontinue the sale of our applications or take other remedial actions, which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. 20 We employ third-party licensed software for use in our applications and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business. Our applications incorporate certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, incorporating the software used in our applications with new third-party software may require significant work and substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, result in a failure of our applications and harm our reputation. We may acquire other businesses, applications or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. In the future, we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are ultimately consummated. We do not have any experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or to effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: the inability to integrate or benefit from acquired applications or services in a profitable manner; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; the incurrence of acquisition-related costs; difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the clients of the acquired business onto our solution, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or services of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; harm to our existing relationships with clients as a result of the acquisition; the potential loss of key employees; the use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and the use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of any companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Our business depends in part on the success of our relationships with third parties. We rely on third-party couriers, financial and accounting processing systems, and various financial institutions, to deliver payroll checks and tax forms, perform financial services in connection with our applications, such as providing automated clearing house (ACH) and wire transfers as part of our payroll and tax payment services and to provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business, provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks, process background checks and deliver payroll checks and tax forms. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with these third parties and integrating third-party content and technology requires significant time and resources. Our agreements with third parties typically are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors. In addition, these third parties may not perform as expected under our agreements, and we may have disagreements or disputes with such third parties, which could negatively affect our 21 brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our third-party providers, hindering their ability to provide the services on which we rely. Further, a disruption of the Federal Reserve Banks services, including ACH processing, could negatively affect our payroll and expense reimbursement services by delaying direct deposits and other financial transactions across the United States. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, these relationships may not result in improved operating results. Because our long-term success may depend, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solution to clients located outside of the United States, our business could be subject to risks associated with international operations. An element of our growth strategy is to expand our operations and client base. To date, we have not engaged in any operations outside of the United States. If we decide to expand our operations into international markets, it will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our lack of experience with international operations, we cannot ensure that our international expansion efforts will be successful, and the impact of such expansion efforts may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in laws, government regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our applications are designed to assist our clients in complying with government regulations that continually change. The introduction of new regulatory requirements, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could increase our cost of doing business. For example, there have been and may continue to be a significant number of new laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have expended additional resources and incurred additional costs in addressing the regulatory requirements applicable to us and our clients. More generally, changing regulatory requirements may make the introduction of new applications and enhancements more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate or could prevent the introduction of new applications and enhancements by us altogether. Changes in laws, regulations or policies could also affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for certain of our existing applications or services, which would result in decreased revenues. Further, we may spend time and money developing new applications and enhancements that, due to regulatory changes, become unnecessary prior to being released. In addition, any failure to educate and assist our clients with respect to new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse effect on our reputation, and any failure to modify our applications or develop new applications in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, new regulations or changes to existing regulations could be unclear, difficult to interpret or conflict with other applicable regulations. Our or our clients failure to comply with new or modified laws or regulations could result in financial penalties, legal proceedings or reputational harm. Finally, a negative audit or other investigations by the U.S. Government could adversely affect our ability to receive U.S. Government contracts and our future operating performance, and could result in financial or reputational harm. In addition, federal, state and foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications. Further, government agencies or private organizations may impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the internet or commerce conducted via the internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally or could result in reductions in the demand for internet-based applications such as ours. Privacy concerns and laws or other regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our applications. Our applications are subject to various complex laws and regulations on the federal, state and local levels, including those governing data security and privacy, which have become significant issues globally. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws, and state data breach notification laws and state privacy laws, such as the New York Stop Hacks and Improve Electronic Data Security (SHIELD) Act, the IBIPA, the CCPA and the CPRA, which expands upon the CCPA and was passed in the recent California election in November 2020. The IBIPA includes a private right of action for persons who are aggrieved by violations of the IBIPA. The CCPA provides consumers with a private right of action if covered companies suffer a data breach related to their failure to implement reasonable security measures. The CCPA and CPRA give California consumers certain rights to be informed of and delete the personal information that we hold, similar to those provided by the European Unions GDPR. Our customers and other users may seek assurances of compliance with CCPA, CRPA, GDPR, and other privacy 22 laws from us as a service provider and data processor on their behalf . Further, because some of our clients have establishments in ternationally , the GDPR and other foreign data privacy laws may impact our processing of certain client and employee information. Failure to comply with data protection and privacy laws and regulations could result in regulatory scrutiny and increased exposure to the risk of litigation or the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, allegations of non-compliance, whether or not true, could be costly, time consuming, distracting to management, and cause reputational harm . In addition, there are a number of other legislative proposals worldwide, including in the United States at both the federal and state level, that could impose additional and potentially conflicting obligations in areas affecting our business. Newly-passed legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect the ability of our clients to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, which could reduce demand for our solution. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose and adopt new and different self-regulatory standards. Because the interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our solution. Any failure to comply with government regulations that apply to our applications, including privacy and data protection laws, could subject us to liability. In addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solution, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns and claims, even if unfounded, or inability to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage to our reputation, reductions in our sales and other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our clients employees to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our clients and their employees to use our applications effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications in certain industries. The adoption of new, or adverse interpretations of existing, state and federal money transmitter or money services business statutes could subject us to additional regulation and related expenses and require changes to our business. The adoption of new money transmitter or money services business statutes in jurisdictions, changes in regulators interpretation of existing state and federal money transmitter or money services business statutes or regulations, or disagreements by regulatory authorities with our interpretation of such statutes or regulations, could subject us to registration or licensing or limit business activities until we are appropriately licensed. These occurrences could also require changes to the manner in which we conduct certain aspects of our business or invest client funds, which could adversely impact the amount of interest income we receive from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the appropriate taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. While we maintain that we are not a money services business or money transmitter, we have adopted an anti-money laundering (AML) compliance program to mitigate the risk of our application being used for illegal or illicit activity and to help detect and prevent fraud. Our AML compliance program is designed to foster trust in our application and services. We are registered as a money services business in one jurisdiction and intend to apply for licenses in others. Should other state or federal regulators make a determination that we have operated as an unlicensed money services business or money transmitter, we could be subject to civil and criminal fines, penalties, costs of registration, legal fees, reputational damage or other negative consequences, all of which may have an adverse effect on our business operating results or financial condition. 23 Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. If we fail to manage such growth and change effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of clients and transactions and the amount of client and employee data that our infrastructure supports. As a result, our organizational structure and recording systems and procedures are becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage this growth and organizational change effectively. To manage the expected growth of our headcount and operations, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The failure to effectively manage growth could result in declines in the quality of, or client satisfaction with, our applications, increases in costs, difficulties or delays in introducing new applications or other operational difficulties, any of which could adversely affect our business by impairing our ability to retain and attract clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients. Further, we need to continue to expand our inside and outside sales force and support team members in order to grow our client base and increase our revenues. Our ability to add additional offices may be constrained by the COVID-19 pandemic, the willingness and availability of qualified personnel to staff and manage any new offices and our success in recruiting and training sales personnel in those new offices. If our expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our solution and applications and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. As a vendor of services, we are ordinarily held responsible by taxing authorities for collecting and paying any applicable sales or other similar taxes. Additionally, the application of federal, state and local tax laws to services provided electronically like ours is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and applications provided over the internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity, due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent, and ultimately could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe we are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we may voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with that states rules and regulations. We cannot ensure that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we currently believe no such taxes are required. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our clients to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our clients to pay fines or penalties and substantial interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our clients, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, the imposition of such taxes on us would effectively increase the cost of our software and services we provide to clients and would likely have a negative impact on our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the jurisdictions in which such taxes are imposed. The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If the ACA is modified to eliminate the employer reporting requirements, or if the ACA is repealed and replaced with new legislation that does not include similar employer reporting requirements, we will no longer generate revenues in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 3% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2021. Further, uncertainty regarding the potential future modification, repeal or replacement of the ACA could adversely affect our ability to sell our Enhanced ACA application to new clients. 24 Industry and Financial Risks Our financial results may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Our results of operations, including our revenues, costs of revenues, administrative expenses, operating income, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in our financial results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period include, without limitation : our ability to attract new clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients; the number of new clients and their employees, as compared to the number of existing clients and their employees in a particular period; the mix of clients between small, mid-sized and large organizations; the extent to which we retain existing clients and the expansion or contraction of our relationships with them; the mix of applications sold during a period; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; seasonal factors affecting payroll processing, demand for our applications or potential clients purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; the timing and success of new applications introduced by us and the timing of expenses related to the development of new applications and technologies; the timing and success of current and new competitive products and services offered by our competitors; economic conditions affecting our clients, including their ability to outsource HCM solutions and hire employees; changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting our clients legal obligations and, as a result, demand for certain applications; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or clients; our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including expenses related to our data centers and the expansion of such data centers and the addition of new offices; the effects and expenses of acquisition of third-party technologies or businesses and any potential future charges for impairment of goodwill resulting from those acquisitions; business disruptions caused by widespread public health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes and floods, acts of war, terrorism, or other catastrophic events; network outages or security breaches; and general economic, industry and market conditions. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. We have historically experienced seasonality in our revenues because a significant portion of our recurring revenues relate to the annual processing of payroll forms such as Form W-2 and Form 1099 and the annual processing and filing of ACA-related forms. Because these forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year, first quarter revenues are generally higher than revenues in subsequent quarters. In addition, unscheduled payroll runs at the end of the year (such as bonuses) often result in increased revenues in the fourth quarter. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future, although the repeal or modification of the ACA could have an impact on the seasonality of our revenues. Seasonal fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics may make such results and metrics difficult to predict. 25 Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to certain operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. We have incurred indebtedness to fund certain construction projects at our corporate headquarters. Pursuant to the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, we may not, subject to certain exceptions: incur additional debt; create or permit the existence of additional liens on our assets; permit certain fundamental changes, including a merger with any persons; make investments in and acquisitions of (or acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of) any person; enter into transactions with affiliates other than in the ordinary course of business on an arms-length basis; make any distributions during an event of default, or any other distributions in excess of $50 million prior to demonstrating pro forma compliance with certain financial covenants; make any change in the basis upon which our financial statements are prepared; enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; or amend, modify, or waive any of our organizational documents in a manner that would be adverse to our lenders. In addition, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to fixed charges (defined as current maturities of long-term debt, interest expense, rent expense and distributions) of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 and a funded indebtedness (defined as total indebtedness less accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenues) to EBITDA of not greater than 2.0 to 1.0. The operating and financial covenants in the loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. We may also be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money available for operations, working capital, expansion, or other general corporate purposes. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations and comply with the operating and financial covenants may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to control many of these factors and comply with these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants under our loan agreements could result in an event of default, which could cause all of our outstanding indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or earlier if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2020, we had recorded a total of $51.9 million of goodwill and $0.3 million of other intangible assets. An adverse change in domestic or global market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates made in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill or intangible assets, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such material charges may have a negative impact on our operating results or financial condition. We may pay employees and taxing authorities amounts due for a payroll period before a clients electronic funds transfers are finally settled to our account. If client payments are rejected by banking institutions or otherwise fail to clear into our accounts, we may require additional sources of short-term liquidity and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our payroll processing application moves significant funds from the account of a client to employees and relevant taxing authorities. For larger funding amounts, we require clients to transfer the funds to us via fed wire. For smaller funding amounts, we debit a clients account prior to any disbursement on its behalf, and due to ACH banking regulations, funds previously credited could be reversed under certain circumstances and time frames after our payment of amounts due to employees and taxing and other regulatory authorities. There is therefore a risk that the employers funds will be insufficient to cover the amounts we have already paid on its behalf. While such shortage and accompanying financial exposure has only occurred in very limited circumstances in the past, should clients default on their payment obligations in the future, we might be required to advance substantial funds to cover such obligations. In such an event, we may be required to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and our operating results and our liquidity could be adversely affected and our banking relationships could be harmed. 26 If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements. Management must evaluate and furnish a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and our auditors must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and/or we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE), the SEC, or other regulatory authorities and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. We have released, and may continue to release, guidance in our earnings conference calls, earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance, which represents our estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Projections are also based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Risk Factors section in this Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans, warrants or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to one hundred million shares of common stock and up to ten million shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, in part or in full, through the issuance of additional equity securities. Any issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition, the exercise of stock options or warrants, the award of shares of restricted stock or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our existing stockholders. 27 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains an exclusive forum provision that may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if no Court of Chancery located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the Federal District Court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of Delaware law or our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws (as either may be amended from time to time) or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, this exclusive forum selection provision will not apply to claims under the Exchange Act. Moreover, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce our forum selection provision as written in connection with claims arising under the Securities Act. This forum selection provision may limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. It is also possible that, notwithstanding the forum selection clause included in our certificate of incorporation, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable. General Risks The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. The global spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. Individually and collectively, the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic ultimately impacts our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to: the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and the impact of those actions on global economic activity; the impact of business disruptions and reductions in headcount on our clients and the resulting impact on their demand for our services and solution; the increase in business failures among businesses that we serve; our clients ability to pay for our services and solutions; and our ability to provide our services and solutions, including as a result of our employees or our clients employees working remotely and/or closures of offices and facilities. Our clients are sensitive to negative changes in economic conditions. Across many industries, temporary and permanent business closures as well as business occupancy limitations have resulted in significant layoffs and employee furloughs since late March 2020. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, decreases in headcount at our clients negatively impact our results of operations. Further, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, a limited number of new clients 28 temporarily delayed service implementation. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to create uncertainty and the potential for ongoing business disruptions, we may experience similar client-driven delays in service implementation in the future. In order to spur economic activity to counteract the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Open Market Committee lowered its target for the federal funds rate in March 2020. In addition, a provision in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) allows employers to delay the payment of the employers share of Social Security taxes to a future date. To the extent our clients make such election, we are collecting less money from them to hold and then remit to the appropriate taxing authorities, which adversely affects our average funds held for clients balance and, consequently, interest earned on funds held for clients. Significantly lower average interest rates in 2020, combined with the lack of growth of the average funds held for clients balance due to lower employee headcount at our clients as well as clients electing the Social Security tax deferral under the CARES Act, had a negative effect on interest earned on funds held for clients and, consequently, recurring revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2020. We expect that the foregoing adverse economic factors will continue to have a negative impact on recurring revenues in future periods for so long as such conditions persist. Further, the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenues combined with our deliberate, increased level of investment to drive the growth of our business may negatively affect net income. Beginning in February 2020, we took various actions in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate. As of December 31, 2020, 96% of our employees were working remotely. Our remote work arrangements may create increased operational risk, including data security risk, as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruptions in typical operations. We have prohibited all business-related travel until further notice and our sales force is conducting all sales meetings virtually. If clients and client prospects are not as willing or available to engage via video conference and teleconference, the shift from in-person to virtual sales meetings could negatively affect our sales efforts, impede client acquisition and lengthen our sales cycles, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations and could impact our financial condition in the future. Even after the COVID-19 outbreak has subsided, depending upon its duration and frequency of recurrence, and the governmental policies in response thereto, we may experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including any recession that may occur or be continuing as a result. We continue to monitor and evaluate the extent to which COVID-19 has impacted us and our employees and clients, and the extent to which it and other emerging developments are expected to impact us in the future. Adverse economic and market conditions could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for HCM applications and on the economic health of our current and prospective clients. If economic conditions in the United States or in global markets deteriorate, clients may cease their operations, eliminate or reduce unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses), reduce headcount, delay or reduce their spending on HCM and other outsourcing services or attempt to renegotiate their contracts with us. An economic decline could result in reductions in sales of our applications, decreased revenue from unscheduled payroll runs and fees charged on a per-employee basis, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, HCM spending levels may not increase following any recovery. In recent years, there have been several instances when there has been uncertainty regarding the ability of Congress and the President collectively to reach agreement on federal budgetary and spending matters. A period of failure to reach agreement on these matters, particularly if accompanied by an actual or threatened government shutdown, may have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy. Additionally, because certain of our clients rely on government resources to fund their operations, a prolonged government shutdown may affect such clients ability to make timely payments to us, which could adversely affect our operations results or financial condition. Further, as part of our payroll and tax filing application, we collect and then remit client funds to taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. During the interval between receipt and disbursement, we may invest such funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. These investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks, and such risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. Any loss of or inability to access such funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and results of operations and could require us to obtain additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. 29 Item 1B. Unresolve d Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters is an approximately 500,000-square-foot campus located on over 150 acres of Company-owned property in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In addition to housing two fully redundant data centers at our corporate headquarters, we operate another fully redundant data center at a leased property near Dallas, Texas. In April 2019, we commenced construction of a new, expanded operations facility on approximately 14 acres of Company-owned property in Grapevine, Texas. We also lease a disaster recovery site in downtown Oklahoma City. We also lease offices in 27 states. We believe that these facilities are suitable for our current operations and, upon the expiration of the terms of the leases, we believe we could renew these leases or find suitable space elsewhere on acceptable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes, claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the resolution of current pending legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Nonetheless, we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, as legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information, see Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies in this Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 30 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol PAYC. As of February 9, 2021, there were approximately 1,950 holders of record of our common stock. This number is based on the actual number of holders registered at such date and does not include holders whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock as of the filing of this Form 10-K. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and we may reduce or discontinue entirely the payment of such dividends at any time. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications of the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our filings with the SEC, the following performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or soliciting material under the Exchange Act and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index during the five-year period commencing on December 31, 2015 and ending on December 31, 2020. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our common stock and in each of the comparative indices at the beginning of the period, and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. 31 Purchases of Equity Securities The number of shares of common stock repurchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2020 is set forth below: Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1 - 31, 2020 (2) 13,703 $ 377.33 13,703 $ 166,800,000 November 1 - 30, 2020 (2) 14,702 $ 398.94 14,702 $ 161,000,000 December 1 - 31, 2020 (2) 60,276 $ 425.98 60,276 $ 135,300,000 Total 88,681 88,681 (1) Pursuant to a stock repurchase plan announced on November 20, 2018, we were authorized to purchase (in the aggregate) up to $150.0 million of our common stock in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or by other means. On March 12, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors increased the availability under the existing stock repurchase plan to $250.0 million and extended the expiration date to March 12, 2022. (2) Consists of shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations for certain employees upon the vesting of restricted stock. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Our selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read together with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K (dollars in thousands, except per share data). Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Consolidated statements of income data: Total revenues $ 841,434 $ 737,671 $ 566,336 $ 433,047 $ 329,141 Operating income $ 186,123 $ 226,224 $ 173,715 $ 129,710 $ 101,740 Net income $ 143,453 $ 180,576 $ 137,065 $ 123,486 $ 70,421 Earnings per share, basic $ 2.49 $ 3.14 $ 2.37 $ 2.13 $ 1.21 Earnings per share, diluted $ 2.46 $ 3.09 $ 2.34 $ 2.10 $ 1.19 As of December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Consolidated balance sheets data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 151,710 $ 133,667 $ 45,718 $ 46,077 $ 60,158 Total assets $ 2,607,912 $ 2,486,917 $ 1,521,926 $ 1,550,138 $ 1,224,589 Net long-term debt, less current portion $ 29,119 $ 30,858 $ 32,614 $ 34,414 $ 28,711 Total stockholders equity $ 655,643 $ 526,628 $ 334,753 $ 281,247 $ 205,694 32 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements (prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP)) and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K). The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks, and assumptions associated with those statements. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, particularly in the section entitled Risk Factors. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our and the Company refer to Paycom Software, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All amounts presented in tables, other than per share amounts, are in thousands unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading provider of a comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solution delivered as Software-as-a-Service. We provide functionality and data analytics that businesses need to manage the complete employment lifecycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our solution requires virtually no customization and is based on a core system of record maintained in a single database for all HCM functions, including talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and human resources management applications. Our user-friendly software allows for easy adoption of our solution by employees, enabling self-management of their HCM activities in the cloud, which reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed and (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. We serve a diverse client base in terms of size and industry. None of our clients constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our revenues are primarily generated through our sales force that solicits new clients and our client relations representatives who sell new applications to existing clients. Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients through further penetration of our existing markets and geographic expansion into new markets, targeting a high degree of client employee usage across our solution, and introducing new applications to our existing client base. We believe our ability to continue to develop new applications and to improve existing applications will enable us to increase revenues in the future, and the number of our new applications adopted by our clients has been a significant factor in our revenue growth. We also plan to open additional sales offices in the future and leverage virtual sales meetings to further expand our presence in the U.S. market. Our principal marketing efforts include national and local advertising campaigns, email campaigns, social and digital media campaigns, search engine marketing methods, tradeshows, print advertising and outbound marketing including personalized direct mail campaigns. In addition, we generate leads and build recognition of our brand and thought leadership with relevant and informative content, such as white papers, blogs, podcast episodes and webinars. Throughout our history, we have built strong relationships with our clients. As the HCM needs of our clients evolve, we believe that we are well-positioned to expand the HCM spending of our clients and we believe this opportunity is significant. To be successful, we must continue to demonstrate the operational and economic benefits of our solution, as well as effectively hire, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. 33 Growth Outlook, Opportunities and Challenges As a result of our significant revenue growth and geographic expansion, we are presented with a variety of opportunities and challenges. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. Consequently, we have historically generated the majority of our revenues from our payroll applications, although our revenue mix has evolved and will continue to evolve as we develop and add new non-payroll applications to our solution. We believe our strategy of focusing on increased employee usage is key to long-term client satisfaction and client retention. Client adoption of new applications and client employee usage of both new and existing applications have been significant factors in our revenue growth, and we expect the continuation of this trajectory will depend, in part, on the introduction of applications to our existing client base that encourage and promote more employee usage. Moreover, in order to increase revenues and continue to improve our operating results, we must also attract new clients. We intend to obtain new clients by (i) continuing to leverage our sales force productivity within markets where we currently have existing sales offices, (ii) expanding our presence in metropolitan areas where we currently have an existing sales office through adding sales teams or offices, thereby increasing the number of sales professionals within such markets, and (iii) opening sales offices in new metropolitan areas. Our target client size range is 50 to 5,000 employees. While we continue to serve a diversified client base ranging in size from one employee to many thousands of employees, the average size of our clients has grown significantly as we have organically grown our operations, increased the number of applications we offer and gained traction with larger companies. We believe larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of potential clients and to increase our revenues per client, with limited incremental cost to us. Because we charge our clients on a per employee basis for certain services we provide, any increase or decrease in the number of employees of our clients will have a positive or negative impact, respectively, on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, client headcount fluctuations are particularly relevant in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Generally, we expect that changes in certain factors affecting our performance will correlate with improvement or deterioration in the labor market. Based on our total revenues, we have grown at a 26% compound annual growth rate from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2020. Growing our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial investments in sales professionals, operating expenses, system development and programming costs and general and administrative expenses, which have increased and will continue to increase our expenses. Specifically, our revenue growth and geographic expansion drive increases in our employee headcount, which in turn precipitates increases in (i) salaries and benefits, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and (iii) facility costs related to the expansion of our corporate headquarters and operations facilities and additional sales office leases. We believe the challenges of managing the ever-changing complexity of payroll and human resources will continue to drive companies to turn to outsourced providers for help with their HCM needs. The HCM industry historically has been driven, in part, by legislation and regulatory action, including COBRA, changes to the minimum wage laws or overtime rules, and legislation from federal, state or municipal taxation authorities. The implementation of the Affordable Care Act (the ACA) is an example of legislation that has created demand in the HCM industry. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 3% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2021. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, our gross margins were approximately 85%, 85% and 84%, respectively. Although our gross margins may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and hiring trends, we expect that our gross margins will remain relatively consistent in future periods. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a global pandemic. In response, federal, state and local governments imposed various restrictions on social and commercial activity to promote social distancing in an effort to slow the spread of the disease, and many such restrictions remain in place. Beginning in February 2020, we took various actions in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate, and in March 2020, we prohibited all business-related travel until further notice and began transitioning our employees to work-from-home arrangements. Our sales employees have been conducting all meetings with current and prospective clients virtually since March 2020, and we expect this practice to continue for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2020, 96% of our employees were working remotely. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees and clients. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the operations of our clients and client prospects and may continue to do so for an indefinite period of time. Across many industries, temporary and permanent business closures as well as business occupancy 34 limitations have resulted in significant layoffs and employee furloughs since late March 2020. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, decreases in headcount at our clients as of the onset of the pandemic negatively impacted our recurring revenue during 2020, and we expect that our recurring revenue in future periods will continue to be negatively impacted by such headcount reductions until employment levels among such client base return to pre-pandemic levels. Further, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, a limited number of new clients temporarily delayed service implementation. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to create uncertainty and the potential for ongoing business disruptions, we may experience similar client-driven delays in service implementation in the future. In addition, during 2019, interest earned on funds held for clients contributed to growth in recurring revenue, due to both higher average interest rates and an increased average funds held for clients balance. Between August 2019 and March 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target range for short-term interest rates several times, with the most significant rate cut occurring in March 2020 to support the economy and potentially reduce the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, a provision in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) allowed employers to delay the payment of the employers share of Social Security taxes to a future date. To the extent our clients made such an election, we collected less money from them to hold and then remit to the appropriate taxing authorities, which adversely affected our average funds held for clients balance and, consequently, interest earned on funds held for clients. During 2020, despite the growth in the number of clients in our base, employee headcount reductions at our clients as well as clients electing to defer payment of their share of Social Security taxes under the CARES Act resulted in nominal growth in our average funds held for clients balance, relative to 2019. Due to significantly lower average interest rates in 2020 and, to a lesser extent, the lack of growth of our average funds held for clients balance, interest earned on funds held for clients for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased from the year ended December 31, 2019, which had a negative effect on recurring revenue growth. The average daily balance of funds held for clients was approximately $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2020, compared to approximately $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2019. Demand for our solution remains high and, in 2020, we continued to aggressively invest in sales and marketing and in research and development to drive future growth and expand our market share. Lower headcount at our clients and the other pandemic-related factors described above, which had and may continue to have a negative impact on recurring revenue, combined with increased sales and marketing and research and development expenses, resulted in a decrease in net income for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. We expect net income to be negatively affected by the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenue and our deliberate, increased level of investment to drive the growth of our business. Despite the economic challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain confident in the overall health of our business, the strength of our product offerings, and our ability to continue to execute on our strategy. Internally, all applications within the Paycom solution, and more specifically Employee Self-Service, Manager on-the-Go, Documents and Checklists, Ask Here and our enhanced Learning Management System, have been instrumental in our ability to seamlessly manage and communicate with our remote workforce. As many clients have also transitioned their workforces to work-from-home arrangements, we believe they too are recognizing the benefits of these applications and our focus on employee usage, as well as the strengths and advantages of our single database solution. In contrast, we believe the remote work environment is exposing the weaknesses and disadvantages arising from the combination of disparate systems offered by some of our competitors. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our sales force historically traveled frequently to sell our solution. The current remote work environment presents a unique opportunity for our sales force, in that each sales employee is able to meet virtually with a greater number of client prospects in a given day than he or she would if conducting in-person meetings. Although we have not experienced such challenges to date, if clients and client prospects are not as willing or available to engage via video conference and teleconference, the shift from in-person to virtual sales meetings could negatively affect our sales efforts, impede client acquisition and lengthen our sales cycles, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations and could impact our financial condition in the future. We are unable to estimate the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic could have on our business and results of operations in the future due to numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to the business of our clients and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Form 10-K. Further, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable, the effect of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods. 35 Key Metrics In addition to the U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we also monitor the following metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance and identify trends affecting our business: Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Key performance indicators: Clients 30,994 26,527 23,533 Clients (based on parent company grouping) 16,063 13,581 12,754 Sales teams 50 50 49 Annual revenue retention rate 93 % 93 % 92 % Clients. When we calculate the number of clients at period end, we treat client accounts with separate taxpayer identification numbers (or, in certain circumstances, separate client codes) as separate clients, which often separates client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients to provide an accurate gauge of the size of our business. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to clients throughout this Form 10-K refer to this metric. Clients (based on parent company grouping). When we calculate the number of clients based on parent company grouping at period end, we combine client accounts that have identified the same person(s) as their decision-maker regardless of whether the client accounts have separate taxpayer identification numbers (or, in certain circumstances, separate client codes), which often combines client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients based on parent company grouping to provide an alternate measure of the size of our business and clients. Sales Teams . We monitor our sales professionals by the number of sales teams at period end. CRRs and inside sales representatives are counted as one sales team. Each outside sales team consists of a sales manager and approximately six to eight sales professionals. Certain larger metropolitan areas can support more than one sales team. We believe the number of sales teams is an indicator of potential revenues for future periods. Annual Revenue Retention Rate . Our annual revenue retention rate tracks the percentage of revenues that we retain from our existing clients. We monitor this metric because it is an indicator of client satisfaction and revenues for future periods. Components of Results of Operations Sources of Revenues Revenues are comprised of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues. We expect our revenues to increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. As a percentage of total revenues, we expect our mix of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues to remain relatively constant. Recurring Revenues Recurring revenues include fees for our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications as well as fees charged for form filings and delivery of client payroll checks and reports. These revenues are derived from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed or (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. Because recurring revenues are based, in part, on fees for use of our applications and the delivery of checks and reports that are levied on a per-employee basis, our recurring revenues increase as our clients hire more employees. Recurring revenues are recognized in the period services are rendered. Recurring revenues include revenues relating to the annual processing of payroll forms, such as Form W-2 and Form 1099, and revenues from processing unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses) for our clients. Because payroll forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year and many of our clients are subject to ACA form filing requirements in the first quarter, first quarter revenues and margins are generally higher than in subsequent quarters. We anticipate our revenues will continue to exhibit this seasonal pattern related to ACA form filings for so long as the ACA (or replacement legislation) includes employer reporting requirements. In addition, we often experience increased revenues during the fourth quarter due to unscheduled payroll runs for our 36 clients that occur before the end of the year. Therefore, we expect the seasonality of our revenue cycle to decrease to the extent clients utilize more of our non-payroll applications. Recurring revenues also include interest earned on funds held for clients. We collect funds from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. These collections from clients are typically disbursed from one to 30 days after receipt, with some funds being held for up to 120 days. We typically invest funds held for clients in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper and certificates of deposit until they are paid to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. We expect interest earned on funds held for clients will increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. The amount of interest we earn from the investment of client funds is also impacted by changes in interest rates. Implementation and Other Revenues Implementation and other revenues are comprised of implementation fees for the deployment of our solution and other revenues from sales of time clocks as part of our time and attendance services. Non-refundable implementation fees are charged to new clients at inception and upon the addition of certain incremental applications for existing clients. These fees range from 10% to 30% of the annualized value of the transaction. Implementation revenues are recognized as deferred revenue and amortized into income over the life of the client, which is estimated to be ten years, and other revenues are recognized upon shipment of time clocks. Implementation and other revenues comprised approximately 1.9% and 1.8% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of expenses related to hosting and supporting our applications, hardware costs, systems support and technology and depreciation and amortization. These costs include employee-related expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) and other expenses related to client support, bank charges for processing ACH transactions, certain implementation expenses, delivery charges and paper costs. They also include our cost for time clocks sold and ongoing technology and support costs related to our systems. The amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to cost of revenues is determined based upon an estimate of assets used to support our operations. Administrative Expenses Administrative expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and depreciation and amortization. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses for our direct sales and marketing staff (such as the amortization of commissions and bonuses and non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), marketing expenses and other related costs. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) for our development staff, net of capitalized software costs for internally developed software. We expect to grow our research and development efforts as we continue to broaden our payroll and HR solution offerings and extend our technological solutions by investing in the development of new applications and enhancements for existing applications. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of (i) the amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to administrative expenses (based upon an estimate of assets used to support our selling, general and administrative functions) and (ii) amortization of intangible assets. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest on debt related to our corporate headquarters and settlements related to an interest rate swap we entered into in connection with such debt. We capitalize interest incurred for indebtedness related to construction in progress. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net includes interest earned on our own funds, any gain or loss on the sale or disposal of fixed assets, costs associated with the early repayment of debt and any unrealized gain or loss related to our interest rate swap. Provision for Income Taxes Our consolidated financial statements include a provision for income taxes incurred for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as for any operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We recognize a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the net amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. 37 Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of income data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated, as well as year-over-year changes with respect to each line item. Refer to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2020, for a discussion of results for the year ended December 31, 2018. Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 % Change Revenues Recurring $ 825,856 98.1 % $ 724,428 98.2 % 14% Implementation and other 15,578 1.9 % 13,243 1.8 % 18% Total revenues 841,434 100.0 % 737,671 100.0 % 14% Cost of revenues Operating expenses 97,778 11.6 % 89,336 12.1 % 9% Depreciation and amortization 25,768 3.1 % 20,411 2.8 % 26% Total cost of revenues 123,546 14.7 % 109,747 14.9 % 13% Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 235,716 28.0 % 179,286 24.3 % 31% Research and development 90,244 10.7 % 73,080 9.9 % 23% General and administrative 178,200 21.2 % 127,534 17.3 % 40% Depreciation and amortization 27,605 3.3 % 21,800 3.0 % 27% Total administrative expenses 531,765 63.2 % 401,700 54.5 % 32% Total operating expenses 655,311 77.9 % 511,447 69.4 % 28% Operating income 186,123 22.1 % 226,224 30.6 % -18% Interest expense (19 ) 0.0 % (940 ) (0.1 %) -98% Other income (expense), net (168 ) 0.0 % 803 0.1 % -121% Income before income taxes 185,936 22.1 % 226,087 30.6 % -18% Provision for income taxes 42,483 5.1 % 45,511 6.1 % -7% Net income $ 143,453 17.0 % $ 180,576 24.5 % -21% Revenues The increase in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 from the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily the result of (i) the addition of new clients and productivity and efficiency gains in mature sales offices, which are offices that have been open for at least 24 months, (ii) contributions from new sales offices opened in 2018 and 2019 that were progressing to maturity or reached maturity in 2020 and (iii) the sale of additional applications to our existing clients. In addition, the strong performance of our tax forms filing business in the first quarter contributed to the increase in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, headcount reductions across our client base. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, the drivers of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 described above were partially offset by the negative impact of headcount reductions within our client base as of the onset of the pandemic. Additionally, lower employee headcount at our clients as well as clients electing the Social Security tax deferral under the CARES Act negatively impacted our average funds held for clients balance for the year ended December 31, 2020. Significantly lower average interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, as well as minimal growth in the average funds held for clients balance, resulted in a decrease in interest earned on funds held for clients and, consequently, had a negative effect on recurring revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2020. We expect that the foregoing adverse macroeconomic factors may continue to have a negative effect on recurring revenues in future periods for so long as such conditions persist. The increase in implementation and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 from the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily the result of the increased recognition of non-refundable conversion fees that are charged to new clients to offset the expense of new client set-up. These fees are deferred and recognized ratably over the ten-year estimated life of our clients. Expenses Cost of Revenues During the year ended December 31, 2020, operating expenses increased from the prior year by $8.4 million primarily due to an $8.2 million increase in expenses attributable to growth in the number of operating personnel, as well as an increase of $1.6 million in 38 automated clearing house fees. These increases were partially offset by lower shipping and supplies fees , which decreased by $1.5 million. D epreciation and amortization expense increased $ 5 . 4 million, or 26 %, primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other related fixed assets. Administrative Expenses Sales and marketing During the year ended December 31, 2020, sales and marketing expenses increased from the prior year by $56.4 million due to a $39.9 million increase in marketing and advertising expense, and a $16.6 million increase in employee-related expenses, including commissions, bonuses and non-cash stock-based compensation. The increase in employee-related expenses included a $6.4 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Research and development During the year ended December 31, 2020, research and development expenses increased $17.2 million from the prior year due to an increase in employee-related expenses, including a $3.7 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense. As we continue the ongoing development of our platform and product offerings, we generally expect research and development expenses (exclusive of stock-based compensation) to continue to increase, particularly as we hire more personnel to support our growth. While we expect this trend to continue on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of total revenues, we also anticipate the rate of increase to decline over time as we leverage our growth and realize additional economies of scale. As is customary for our business, we also expect fluctuations in research and development expense as a percentage of revenue on a quarter-to-quarter basis due to seasonal revenue trends, the introduction of new products, the amount and timing of research and development costs that may be capitalized and the timing of onboarding new hires and restricted stock vesting events. Expenditures for software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a three-year period on a straight-line basis. The nature of the development projects underway during a particular period directly impacts the timing and extent of these capitalized expenditures and can affect the amount of research and development expenses in such period. The table below sets forth the amounts of capitalized and expensed research and development costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 % Change Capitalized portion of research and development $ 43,789 $ 30,412 44% Expensed portion of research and development 90,244 73,080 23% Total research and development costs $ 134,033 $ 103,492 30% General and administrative During the year ended December 31, 2020, general and administrative expenses increased by $50.7 million from the prior year due to a $49.1 million increase in employee-related expenses, which included a $31.9 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and a $1.6 million increase in accounting and legal expenses related to regulatory and compliance matters. Non-Cash Stock-Based Compensation Expense Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 % Change Non-cash stock-based compensation expense Operating expenses $ 5,185 $ 4,376 18% Sales and marketing 14,376 7,955 81% Research and development 9,107 5,428 68% General and administrative 61,440 29,509 108% Total non-cash stock-based compensation expense $ 90,108 $ 47,268 91% 39 During the year ended December 31, 20 20 , our non-cash stock-based compensation expense increased $ 42 . 8 million from the prior year primarily due to the issuance and subsequent accelerated vesting of restricted stock subject to market-based vesting conditions during 20 20 , which exceeded expenses associated with the accelerated vesting of restricted stock subject to market-based vesting conditions in 201 9 . Depreciation and Amortization During the year ended December 31, 2020, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the prior year primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other related fixed assets. Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was due to the timing of construction of our expanded operations facility in Grapevine, Texas, which resulted in more capitalized interest in 2020. Other Income (Expense), net The change in other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to the decrease in the fair value of our interest rate swap as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is based on a current estimate of the annual effective income tax rate adjusted to reflect the impact of discrete items. Our effective income tax rate was 23% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The higher effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily resulted from the increase in state income taxes and non-deductible expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital and liquidity are our operating cash flow and cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised primarily of demand deposit accounts, money market funds and certificates of deposit. Additionally, we maintain a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Facility), which can be accessed as needed to supplement our operating cash flow and cash balances. The Facility provides us the ability to borrow funds in the aggregate principal amount of $75.0 million, which may be increased up to $125.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying certain other conditions. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs over at least the next 12 months. We have historically funded our operations from cash flows generated from operations, cash from the sale of equity securities and debt financing. Although we have funded most of the costs for construction projects at our corporate headquarters and other facilities from available cash, we have incurred indebtedness for a portion of these costs. Further, all purchases under our stock repurchase plans were paid for from available cash. Term Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2020, our indebtedness consisted solely of term loans (the Term Loans) made under a senior secured term credit agreement (as amended from time to time, the Term Credit Agreement) among the Company, certain of our subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Kirkpatrick Bank. All Term Loans were used to finance construction projects at our corporate headquarters. Our obligations under the Term Loans are secured by a mortgage and first priority security interest in our headquarters property. The Term Loans mature on September 7, 2025 and bear interest, at our option, at either (a) a prime rate plus 1.0% or (b) an adjusted LIBOR rate for the interest period in effect for such Term Loan plus 1.5%. Under the Term Credit Agreement, we are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.0 and a funded indebtedness to EBITDA ratio of not greater than 2.0 to 1.0. Additionally, the Term Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants limiting our ability to, among other things, grant liens, incur debt, effect certain mergers, make investments, dispose of assets, enter into certain transactions including swap agreements and sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, and enter into transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit agreement of this size and type. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants set forth in the Term Credit Agreement. Interest Rate Swap Agreement. In connection with entering into the Term Credit Agreement, we also entered into a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreement to limit the exposure to interest rate risk related to the Term Loans (the Interest Rate Swap Agreement). The Interest Rate Swap Agreement, which has a maturity date of September 7, 2025, provides that we will receive quarterly variable interest payments based on the LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate. We have elected not to designate this interest rate swap as a hedge and, as such, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in our consolidated statements of income. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recognized losses of $1.4 million for the change in fair value of the interest rate swap, which is included in Other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income. 40 Revolving Credit Agreement. On February 12, 2018, we entered into a senior secured revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. that provided for the Facility in the aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million (the Revolving Commitment), which could be increased to up to $100.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying certain other conditions. The Facility includes a $5.0 million sublimit for swingline loans and a $2.5 million s ublimit for letters of credit. The Facility was scheduled t o mature on February 12, 2020. On April 15, 2019, we entered into the First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement (the First Amendment). Pursuant to the First Amendment, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was added as a lender and the Revolving Commitment was increased to $75.0 million, which may be further increased to $125.0 million subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying other conditions . T he scheduled maturity date of the Facility was also extended to April 15, 2022. Borrowings under the Facility will generally bear interest at a prime rate plus 1.0% or, at our option, an adjusted LIBOR rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus 1.5%, in each case subject to certain conditions set forth in the Revolving Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Facility. Stock Repurchase Plan and Withholding Shares to Cover Taxes. In May 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan allowing for the repurchase of shares of our common stock in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means in accordance with federal securities laws, including Rule 10b5-1 programs. Since the initial authorization of the stock repurchase plan, our Board of Directors has amended and extended and authorized new stock repurchase plans from time to time. Most recently, in March 2020, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $250.0 million of our common stock. Our stock repurchase plan may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased depends on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, the shares withheld for taxes associated with the vesting of restricted stock and other corporate considerations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased an aggregate of 432,897 shares of common stock at an average cost of $265.31 per share, including 188,466 shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations for certain employees upon the vesting of restricted stock. Our payment of the taxes on behalf of those employees resulted in an aggregate cash expenditure of $62.8 million and, as such, we generally subtract the amounts attributable to such withheld shares from the aggregate amount available for future purchases under our stock repurchase plan. As of December 31, 2020, there was $135.3 million available for repurchases. The stock repurchase plan will expire on March 12, 2022. Cash Flow Analysis Our cash flows from operating activities have historically been significantly impacted by profitability, implementation revenues received but deferred, our investment in sales and marketing to drive growth, and research and development. Our ability to meet future liquidity needs will be driven by our operating performance and the extent of continued investment in our operations. Failure to generate sufficient revenues and related cash flows could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our liquidity needs and achieve our business objectives. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. We are currently focused on the ongoing construction of our new Texas operations facility in Grapevine, Texas. Capital expenditures related to the construction of the facility began in the second quarter of 2019. On August 5, 2019, we purchased 107.5 acres of land adjacent to our corporate headquarters in Oklahoma City for $19.2 million. We expect a portion of this land will be utilized to facilitate our growth in the future. Depending on certain growth opportunities, we may choose to accelerate investments in sales and marketing, acquisitions, technology and services. Actual future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our future revenues, cash from operating activities and the level of expenditures in all areas of our business. As part of our payroll and payroll tax filing services, we collect funds from our clients for federal, state and local employment taxes, which we remit to the appropriate tax agencies. We invest these funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, commercial paper and certificates of deposit from which we earn interest income during the period between their receipt and disbursement. Our cash flows from investing and financing activities are influenced by the amount of funds held for clients, which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The balance of the funds we hold depends on our clients payroll calendars, and therefore such balance changes from period to period in accordance with the timing of each payroll cycle. Our cash flows from financing activities are also affected by the extent to which we use available cash to purchase shares of common stock under our stock repurchase plan as well as restricted stock vesting events that result in net share settlements and the Company paying withholding taxes on behalf of certain employees. 41 The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 20 20 and 201 9 : Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 227,207 $ 224,263 1% Investing activities (117,877 ) (219,545 ) -46% Financing activities (165,909 ) 650,672 -125% Change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ (56,579 ) $ 655,390 -109% Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily consisted of payments received from our clients and interest earned on funds held for clients. Cash used in operating activities primarily consisted of personnel-related expenditures to support the growth and infrastructure of our business. These payments included costs of operations, advertising and other sales and marketing efforts, IT infrastructure development, product research and development and security and administrative costs. Compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, our operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020 were positively impacted by the growth of our business. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased from the prior year period due to a $239.8 million increase in proceeds from maturities of short-term investments from funds held for clients, partially offset by a $136.9 million increase in purchases of short-term investments from funds held for clients and a $1.2 million increase in cash used for purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased from the prior year period primarily due to the impact of $744.3 million of changes in client funds obligation, which is due to the timing of receipts from our clients and payments made to our clients employees and applicable taxing authorities on their behalf. Additionally, cash flows from financing activities were impacted by a $52.0 million increase in repurchases of common stock as well as a $20.3 million increase in withholding taxes paid related to net share settlements. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of long-term debt and leases for office space. We disclose our long-term debt in Note 6 and our commitments and contingencies in Note 12 in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2020, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows: Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Net term notes to bank due September 7, 2025 $ 31,063 $ 1,775 $ 3,550 $ 25,738 $ Interest on term notes to bank due September 7, 2025 4,938 1,225 2,233 1,480 Operating lease obligations 29,301 11,204 13,704 4,393 Total $ 65,302 $ 14,204 $ 19,487 $ 31,611 $ We plan to continue to lease additional office space to support our growth. In addition, many of our existing lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. When applicable, our future operating lease obligations include payments due during any renewal period provided for in the lease where the lease imposes a penalty for failure to renew. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. 42 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that may be material to investors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we continually evaluate our estimates and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results may materially differ from these estimates made by management under different assumptions and conditions. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates, and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position, are described below. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our clients in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to for those goods or services. Substantially all of our revenues are comprised of revenue from contracts with clients. Sales and other applicable taxes are excluded from revenues. Recurring revenues are derived primarily from our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications as well as fees charged for form lings and delivery of client payroll checks and reports. Talent acquisition includes our applicant tracking, candidate tracker, background check, on-boarding, e-verify and tax credit services applications. Time and labor management includes time and attendance, scheduling/schedule exchange, time-off requests, labor allocation, labor management reports/push reporting and geofencing/geotracking. Payroll includes our payroll and tax management, Paycom Pay, expense management, garnishment management and GL Concierge applications. Talent management includes our employee self-service, compensation budgeting, performance management, executive dashboard and Paycom learning and course content applications. HR management includes our document and task management, government and compliance, benets administration, benefit enrollment services, COBRA administration, personnel action forms, surveys and enhanced ACA applications. The performance obligations related to recurring revenues are satisfied during each clients payroll period, with the agreed-upon fee being charged and collected as part of our processing of the clients payroll. Recurring revenues are recognized at the conclusion of processing of each clients payroll period, when each respective payroll client is billed. Collectability is reasonably assured as the fees are collected through an automated clearing house as part of the clients payroll cycle or through direct wire transfer, which minimizes the default risk. The contract period for substantially all contracts associated with these revenues is one month due to the fact that both we and the client have the unilateral right to terminate a wholly unperformed contract without compensating the other party by providing 30 days notice of termination. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution, and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. For clients who purchase multiple applications, due to the short-term nature of our contracts, we do not believe it is meaningful to separately assess and identify whether or not each application potentially represents its own, individual, performance obligation as the revenue generated from each application is recognized within the same month as the revenue from the core payroll application. Similarly, we do not believe it is meaningful to individually determine the standalone selling price for each application. We consider the total price charged to a client in a given period to be indicative of the standalone selling price, as the total amount charged is within a reasonable range of prices typically charged for our goods and services for comparable classes of client groups. Implementation and other revenues consist of nonrefundable upfront conversion fees which are charged to new clients to offset the expense of new client set-up as well as revenues from the sale of time clocks as part of our employee time and attendance services. Although these revenues are related to our recurring revenues, they represent distinct performance obligations. Implementation activities primarily represent administrative activities that allow us to fulfill future performance obligations for our clients and do not represent services transferred to the client. However, the nonrefundable upfront fee charged to our clients results in an implied performance obligation in the form of a material right to the client related to the clients option to renew at the end of each 30-day contract period. Further, given that all other services within the contract are sold at a total price indicative of the standalone selling price, coupled with the fact that the upfront fees are consistent with upfront fees charged in similar contracts that we have with clients, the standalone selling price of the clients option to renew the contract approximates the dollar amount of the nonrefundable upfront fee. The nonrefundable upfront fee is typically included on the clients first invoice, and is deferred and recognized ratably over the estimated renewal period (i.e. ten-year estimated client life). 43 Revenue s from the sale of time clocks are recognized when control is transferred to the client upon delivery of the product. We estimate the standalone selling price for the time clocks by maximizing the use of observable inputs such as our specific pricing practices for time clocks. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is not amortized, but we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or earlier if, at the reporting unit level, an indicator of impairment arises. Our business is largely homogeneous and, as a result, goodwill is associated with one reporting unit. We have selected June 30 as our annual goodwill impairment testing date. A review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. The Company performed a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units had declined below its carrying value. In the qualitative assessment, we consider the macroeconomic conditions, including any deterioration of general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, including any deterioration in the environment where the reporting unit operates, changes in the products/services and regulator and political developments; cost of doing business; overall financial performance; other relevant reporting unit specific facts, such as changes in management or key personnel or pending litigation. Based on our assessment, there was no impairment recorded as of June 30, 2020. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, there were no indicators of impairment. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. We have determined that there is no impairment of long-lived assets for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Market-Based Restricted Stock Awards We measure non-cash stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. We determine the fair value of stock awards issued by using a Monte Carlo simulation model. This model considers various subjective assumptions as inputs, and represent our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of our judgment as it relates to market volatilities, the historical volatility of our stock price, risk-free rates and expected life. The valuation model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. Determining these assumptions is subjective and complex, and therefore, a change in the assumptions utilized could impact the calculation of the fair value of our market-based stock awards and the associated compensation expense. Refer to Note 11 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our stock-based compensation awards. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income as supplemental measures to review and assess the performance of our core business operations and for planning purposes. We define (i) adjusted EBITDA as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any) and the change in fair value of our interest rate swap and (ii) non-GAAP net income as net income plus non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any) and the change in fair value of our interest rate swap, all of which are adjusted for the effect of income taxes. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are metrics that provide investors with greater transparency to the information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. We believe these metrics are useful to investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core business operations across periods on a consistent basis, as well as comparisons with the results of peer companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA is a measure that provides useful information to management about the amount of cash available for reinvestment in our business, repurchasing common stock and other purposes. Management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in this Form 10-K, when viewed in combination with our results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business and performance. 44 Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are not measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income have limitations as analytical tools, and when assessing our operating performance, you should not consider adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income in isolation, or as a substitute for net income or other consolidated statements of income data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income may not be comparable to similar titled measures of other companies and other companies may not calculate such measures in the same manner as we do. The following tables reconcile net income to adjusted EBITDA, net income to non-GAAP net income and earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share on a basic and diluted basis. Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2020, for a presentation of the 2018 amounts: Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net income to adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 143,453 $ 180,576 Interest expense 19 940 Provision for income taxes 42,483 45,511 Depreciation and amortization 53,373 42,211 EBITDA 239,328 269,238 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 90,108 47,268 Change in fair value of interest rate swap 1,380 1,375 Adjusted EBITDA $ 330,816 $ 317,881 Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Net income to non-GAAP net income: Net income $ 143,453 $ 180,576 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 90,108 47,268 Change in fair value of interest rate swap 1,380 1,375 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (31,415 ) (24,647 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 203,526 $ 204,572 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 57,620 57,561 Diluted 58,285 58,395 Earnings per share, basic $ 2.49 $ 3.14 Earnings per share, diluted $ 2.46 $ 3.09 Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 3.53 $ 3.55 Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 3.49 $ 3.50 45 Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, basic: Earnings per share, basic $ 2.49 $ 3.14 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 1.56 0.82 Change in fair value of interest rate swap 0.02 0.02 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.54 ) (0.43 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 3.53 $ 3.55 Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, diluted: Earnings per share, diluted $ 2.46 $ 3.09 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 1.55 0.81 Change in fair value of interest rate swap 0.02 0.02 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.54 ) (0.42 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 3.49 $ 3.50 46