Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business If our security measures are breached, or unauthorized access to our clients or their employees or potential employees sensitive data is otherwise obtained, our solution may not be perceived as being secure, clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solution, our ability to attract new clients may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients and their employees and potential employees confidential and proprietary information, including personal identifying information, as well as financial and payroll data. HCM software is often targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches, which could result in unauthorized access to or release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our or our clients business operations. If threat actors are able to circumvent our security measures and we are unable to detect or contain such intrusion into our system, our or our clients sensitive data (including client employees personal data) may be compromised. Further, in order to provide our services, certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. In certain limited circumstances, we utilize relationships with third parties to aid in data management and transaction processing. Certain third parties with which we do business have been subject to cyber-attacks, one of which resulted in unauthorized access to data of certain Company clients and their employees as well as Company data and employee records. These third parties may be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks in the future, including operational errors, system interruptions or breaches, unauthorized disclosure of confidential information and misuse of intellectual property. Even without a direct breach of our systems, cyber-attacks on such third-party vendors or on our clients could adversely impact our business and reputation. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures have been in the past and in the future may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, third-party or employee malfeasance or otherwise. Globally, cybersecurity attacks are increasing in number and the threat actors are increasingly organized and well financed, or at times supported by state actors. In addition, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as Russias invasion of Ukraine, the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas, or increasing tension with China, may create a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may cover only a portion of losses incurred in investigating or remediating an incident, if at all, and may not cover all claims made against us. Undergoing a government investigation or defending a lawsuit, regardless of merit, could be costly and divert managements attention from our business and operations. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients to discontinue the use of our solution, prevent us from attracting new clients, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory investigations and fines or other actions or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any damage, failure or disruption of our SaaS network infrastructure or data centers could impair our ability to effectively provide our solution, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our SaaS network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our solution through standard web browsers, smart phones, tablets and other web-enabled devices and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our solution. We serve all of our clients from our three fully redundant data centers located in Oklahoma and Texas. Our SaaS network infrastructure and data centers are vulnerable to damage, failure and disruption. In the future, we may experience issues with our computing and communications infrastructure or data centers caused by the following factors: human error; telecommunications failures or outages from third-party providers; computer viruses or cyber-attacks; break-ins or other security breaches; 19 acts of terrorism, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism or other misconduct; tornadoes, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters; power loss; and other unforeseen interruptions or damages. If our SaaS network infrastructure or our clients ability to access our solution is interrupted, client and employee data from recent transactions may be permanently lost, and we could be exposed to significant claims by clients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds payable to employees or tax authorities. Further, any adverse changes in service levels at our data centers resulting from damage to or failure of our data centers could result in disruptions in our services. Any significant instances of system downtime or performance problems at our data centers could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract new clients, prevent us from gaining new or additional business from our current clients, or cause our current clients to terminate their use of our solution, any of which would adversely impact our revenues. In addition, if our network infrastructure and data centers fail to support increased capacity due to growth in our business, our clients may experience interruptions in the availability of our solution. Such interruptions may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to clients or adversely affect our retention of existing clients, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new applications, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future disruptive technologies, we might not remain competitive and our business could be adversely affected. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. In order to attract new clients and increase revenues from existing clients, we need to enhance, add new features to and improve our existing applications and introduce new applications. The success of any enhancements or new features and applications depends on several factors, including timely completion and introduction and market acceptance. We may expend significant time and resources developing and pursuing sales of a particular enhancement or application that may not result in revenues in the anticipated time frame or at all, or may not result in revenue growth sufficient to offset increased expenses. Further, changing legal and regulatory requirements may delay the development or introduction of enhancements or new applications or render certain of our applications obsolete. If we are unable to successfully develop enhancements, new features or new applications to meet client needs, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, because our applications are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using internet tools and protocols, we must continuously modify and enhance our applications to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our current and future applications may become less marketable and less competitive or even obsolete. Our success is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies, such as AI and machine learning. The failure to develop enhancements to our applications for, or that incorporate, technologies such as natural language processing, AI, machine learning, and blockchain may impact our ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs associated with our clients operations. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver HCM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, including but not limited to those that incorporate AI or machine learning or are created using AI or machine learning, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. Furthermore, as we continue to use such new technologies in our own solution, developing, testing, and deploying resource-intensive AI systems will require additional investment and may increase our costs. There also may be real or perceived social harm, unfairness, or other outcomes that undermine public confidence in the use and deployment of AI. Any of the foregoing may result in decreased demand for our solution or harm to our business, results of operations or reputation. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. The market for HCM software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. We expect competition to continue to intensify as new technologies and new market entrants emerge and increasingly aggressive pricing strategies persist. Competition in the HCM solutions market is primarily based on service responsiveness, application quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering, and price. Certain competitors have access to larger clients and major distribution agreements with consultants, software vendors and distributors and a more established global presence than we do. Certain of our competitors have in the past or may in the future: adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their product and service offerings more efficiently or rapidly; 20 offer products and services that we may not offer individually or at all, or bundle products and services in a manner that provides them with a price advantage; offer products that can be integrated with other software or systems, whereas our single software may not allow for such integration; develop and implement control processes that drive internal efficiencies, resulting in a better client experience; establish and maintain partnerships with third parties that enhance and expand their product offering to business clients and employees; take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities for expansion more readily; maintain a lower cost basis; secure contractual terms and implement other client retention strategies that increase our costs to acquire new clients; adopt more aggressive or desirable pricing policies; devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing and sale of their products and services; and devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services. Our competitors offer HCM solutions that may overlap with one, several or all categories of the applications we offer. We compete with companies such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Dayforce, Inc., Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Gusto, Inc., Intuit, Inc., Insperity, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation, Paycor HCM, Inc., People Center, Inc. d/b/a Rippling, SAP SE, ServiceNow, Inc., Ultimate Kronos Group, Workday, Inc., and other international, national, regional, and local providers. Our competitors provide HCM solutions by various means. Although certain providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, many now offer cloud-based solutions, resulting in increased competition for clients seeking the greater flexibility and access to information provided by cloud-based offerings. Furthermore, the HCM industry has experienced an emergence of white label and embedded payroll offerings. The proliferation of white label offerings and products and technologies utilizing embedded payroll systems may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and our billing terms, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could hinder our ability to attract and retain clients and could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solution to maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends on our clients continued use of our applications, their purchases of additional applications from us and our ability to add new clients. Any decline in our clients continued use of our applications or purchases of additional applications could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our current clients continue to use our applications and purchase additional applications from us, and that we add new clients. Generally, our clients have no obligation to continue to use our applications and have the right to cancel their agreements with us for any or no reason by providing 30 days prior written notice. Moreover, from time to time, clients choose not to continue to use our applications at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Our annual revenue retention rate fluctuates as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to the level of client satisfaction with our applications, pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our client base, reduced hiring by our clients or reductions in our clients spending levels. In addition, because our Beti technology is designed to eliminate payroll errors that lead to billable corrections and unscheduled payroll runs, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a reduction in these activities that would otherwise generate additional revenue for us. If our clients do not continue to use our applications, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional applications, or if we fail to add new clients, our annual revenue retention rate may decline and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our deployment or technical support services, or if our solution fails to perform properly. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients, both with respect to our applications and the technical support provided to help our clients use the applications that address the needs of their businesses. We use our in-house deployment personnel to implement and configure our solution and provide support to our clients. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of our solution, the applications delivered or the support provided, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, our profitability might be negatively affected, and the clients dissatisfaction with our deployment or support service could harm our ability to sell additional applications to that client. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solution and applications and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect client retention, our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective clients, and, as a result, our business, operating results or financial condition. 21 Further, our solution is inherently complex and may in the future contain, or develop, undetected defects or errors. Any defects in our applications could adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to sell our applications in the future and result in significant costs to us. The costs incurred in correcting any application defects may be substantial and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any defects in functionality or defects that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in: loss or delayed market acceptance and sales of our applications; termination of service agreements or loss of clients; credits, refunds or other liability to clients, including reimbursements for any fees or penalties assessed by regulatory agencies; breach of contract, breach of warranty or indemnification claims against us, which may result in litigation; diversion of development and service resources; increased scrutiny of our solution from regulatory agencies; and injury to our reputation. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our applications could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Our clients might assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error, or other failure of our solution. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Any failures in the performance of our solution could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. We face challenges related to attracting and retaining larger clients, including demand for customized features, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing sales. In some cases, prospective clients, especially larger companies, expect customized features and functions unique to their business processes, or are seeking to integrate our solutions with other products. If we do not meet the demands of such prospective clients, the market for our solution will be more limited and our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, pursing larger clients may result in a longer sales cycle and, in some cases, we may devote a significant amount of support and service resources to attract and acquire larger prospective clients with no guarantee that these prospective clients will adopt our solution. We are dependent on the continued service of our key executives and, if we fail to retain such key executives, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued services of our key executives, consisting of Chad Richison, Chris Thomas, Craig Boelte, Jason Clark, Brad Smith and Holly Faurot.Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to retain these key executives. Although the employment arrangements of certain of our key executives contain restrictive covenants, our business could nonetheless be adversely affected if a key executive leaves Paycom and interferes with Paycoms client, employee and/or other business relationships. In addition, we have not purchased key person life insurance on any of our key executives. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including software developers, product managers and skilled IT, sales, marketing and operational personnel, our ability to develop and market new and existing products and, in turn, increase our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new applications. As a result, we are heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified software developers, product managers and IT personnel with the requisite education, background and industry experience. In addition, to continue to execute our growth strategy, we must also attract and retain qualified sales, marketing and operational personnel capable of supporting a larger and more diverse client base. The technology industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors, and competition is particularly intense for qualified software developers, product managers and IT personnel. In addition, the nature of the office environment is changing as employers continue to offer various remote or hybrid work arrangements, which can be an important factor in a candidates decision on employment. We maintain an office-centric operational model. Certain companies with which we compete for talent offer work arrangements more flexible than ours, which may impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel if potential or current employees prefer such policies. The competition for qualified personnel also may be amplified by new immigration laws or policies that could limit software companies ability to recruit internationally. Although we would not expect such changes in immigration laws or policies to have a significant direct impact on our workforce, the ensuing increase in demand for software developers and IT personnel could impair our ability to attract or retain skilled employees and/or significantly increase our costs to do so. Furthermore, identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our applications requires significant time, expense and attention, and it can take a 22 substantial amount of time before our employees are fully trained and productive. The loss of the services of a significant number of employees could be disruptive to our development efforts, which may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose clients, increase operating expenses or divert managements attention to recruit replacements for the departed employees. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. If we fail to manage such growth and change effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of clients and transactions and the amount of client and employee data that our infrastructure supports. As a result, our organizational structure and recording systems and procedures are becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage this growth and organizational change effectively. Moreover, our international expansion efforts are exacerbating many of these challenges. To manage the expected growth of our headcount and operations, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The failure to effectively manage growth could result in (i) declines in the quality of, or client satisfaction with, our applications or service delivery, (ii) increases in costs, (iii) difficulties or delays in introducing new applications or (iv) other operational difficulties, any of which could adversely affect our business by impairing our ability to retain and attract clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients. Further, we need to continue to expand our sales force and support team members in order to grow our client base and increase our revenues. Our ability to expand our sales force may be constrained by the willingness and availability of qualified personnel to staff and manage new offices and our success in recruiting and training sales personnel. If our expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. The failure to develop and maintain our brand cost-effectively could have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our solution and is an important element in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients. Successful promotion of our brand depends largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful applications at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities, including increased spending on our national media campaigns, may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new clients or retain our existing clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As we continue to enhance our solution to serve clients located outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. An element of our growth strategy is to expand our operations and client base and we have recently begun to expand our operations into markets outside of the United States. Launching into international markets and doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including but not limited to: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as privacy regulations, tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits, and licenses; failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for the use of our products in various countries; lack of brand recognition, including greater brand recognition of local or other global competitors who have more established operations in the markets we are seeking to enter; lack of familiarity with local, regional or national politics, culture, economics, market conditions and commerce; complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection for and enforcing our intellectual property rights; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; financial risks, such as the impact of local and regional financial crises on demand for our products and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; certain expenses including, among others, expenses for travel, translation and insurance; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions. Our expansion into international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic and political risks that differ from those in the United States. Because of our inexperience with international operations, we 23 cannot ensure that our expansion into international markets will be successful, and the impact of such expansion may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends in part on the success of our relationships with third parties. We rely on third-party couriers to deliver payroll checks and tax forms and on financial and accounting processing systems and various financial institutions to perform financial services in connection with our applications, such as providing automated clearing house (ACH) and wire transfers as part of our payroll and tax payment services and facilitating our Vault Visa Payroll Card. We also rely on third parties to provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to provide these and other services. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with these third parties and integrating third-party content and technology requires significant time and resources. Our agreements with third parties typically are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors. In addition, these third parties may not perform as expected under our agreements, which could hinder our ability to deliver certain services to our clients and negatively affect our brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our third-party providers, hindering their ability to provide the services on which we rely. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, due to our dependence on financial institutions for certain services, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry or a disruption of the Federal Reserve Banks services, including ACH processing, would impede our ability to provide our payroll and expense reimbursement services by delaying direct deposits and other financial transactions across the United States and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We employ third-party licensed software for use in our applications and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business. Our applications incorporate certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. For example, we rely on third-party software to support our background checks application. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. If the third-party software we currently license becomes unavailable, we may be unable to identify commercially reasonable alternatives without significant cost or difficulty, or available alternatives may not meet our internal cybersecurity requirements. In addition, incorporating the software used in our applications with new third-party software may require significant work and substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, result in a failure of our applications and harm our reputation. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenues or incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent in part upon our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our applications and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products or services that compete with ours. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property. We have been involved in litigation in the past and litigation may be necessary in the future to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or control access to, and the distribution of, our solution and proprietary information, which could adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Considerable intellectual property development activity exists in our industry, and we expect that companies will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of applications and competitors grows and the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property in technology areas relating to our solution or applications. In addition, we may increasingly be subject to trademark infringement claims as our presence grows in the marketplace. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. A claim of infringement may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. However, we may be 24 unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover, or may be alleged to cover, some or all of our solution, applications or brands. The outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, any future litigation or claim of infringement could (i) cause us to enter into an unfavorable royalty or license agreement, pay ongoing royalties or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, (ii) require us to discontinue the sale of our solution or applications, (iii) require us to indemnify our clients or third-party service providers or (iv) require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solution or applications. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business and operations. The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights. Some of our applications use software covered by open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership or use of certain types of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional development resources to change our applications. In addition, if we were to combine our applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain types of open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our applications. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to redesign our applications, discontinue the sale of our applications or take other remedial actions, which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. We may acquire other businesses, applications or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. In the future, we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are ultimately consummated. We do not have any experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or to effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: the inability to integrate or benefit from acquired applications or services in a profitable manner; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; the incurrence of acquisition-related costs; difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; difficulty and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the clients of the acquired business onto our solution, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or services of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; harm to our existing relationships with clients as a result of the acquisition; the potential loss of key employees; the use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and the use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of any companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of debt or issuances of equity securities, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in laws, government regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our applications are designed to assist our clients in complying with government regulations that continually change. The introduction of new regulatory requirements, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could increase our cost of doing business, decrease our revenues and net income or require us to make changes to our applications. Moreover, changing regulatory requirements may make the introduction of new applications and enhancements more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate or could prevent the introduction of new applications and enhancements by us altogether. 25 For example, a change in tax laws and regulations resulting in a decrease in the amount of taxes required to be withheld or accelerating the deadline to remit taxes to appropriate tax agencies would adversely impact our average balance of funds held for clients and, as a result, adversely impact the interest income we earn on such funds during the period between receipt and disbursement. Changes in laws, regulations or policies could also affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for certain of our existing applications or services, which would result in decreased revenues. For example, we generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. If the ACA is modified to eliminate the employer reporting requirements, or if the ACA is repealed and replaced with new legislation that does not include similar employer reporting requirements, we will no longer generate revenues in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 2% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2024. Further, we may spend time and money developing new applications and enhancements that, due to regulatory changes, become unnecessary prior to being released. In addition, any failure to educate and assist our clients with respect to new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse effect on our reputation, and any failure to modify our applications or develop new applications in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, new regulations or changes to existing regulations could be unclear, difficult to interpret or conflict with other applicable regulations. Our or our clients failure to comply with new or modified laws or regulations could result in financial penalties, legal proceedings or reputational harm. Finally, a negative audit or other investigations by the U.S. Government could adversely affect our ability to receive U.S. Government contracts and our future operating performance, and could result in financial or reputational harm. In addition, federal, state and foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications. Further, government agencies or private organizations may impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the internet or commerce conducted via the internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally or could result in reductions in the demand for internet-based applications such as ours. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. Our applications and services are subject to various complex laws and regulations on the federal, state, local, and foreign levels, including those governing data security and privacy, which have become significant issues globally. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include numerous state-level consumer privacy laws, beginning with Californias CCPA, the IBIPA, rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (the GLBA), federal and state labor and employment laws, state data breach notification laws, and state cybersecurity laws, such as the New York Stop Hacks and Improve Electronic Data Security (SHIELD) Act. As we expand our operations outside the United States, our applications and services are or will be subject to additional laws governing data security and privacy in relevant jurisdictions, such as Canadas PIPEDA and Mexicos Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data held by Private Parties, as well as the GDPR, which is applicable in the European Economic Area and the United Kingdom. The CCPA provides California consumers with a private right of action if covered companies suffer a data breach related to their failure to implement reasonable security measures. The CCPA and other state-level consumer privacy laws give consumers located in those states certain rights to be informed of, opt-out of, and request deletion of the personal information that we hold, similar to those rights provided by the European Unions GDPR. The IBIPA includes a private right of action for persons who are aggrieved by violations of the IBIPA. The GLBA is enforced under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission and requires our payment card services to adhere to a privacy notice and take certain measures to protect related personal information from unauthorized use and threats to data security. Because some of our clients are located in Mexico and other clients have establishments internationally, Canadas PIPEDA, Mexicos Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data, and other foreign data privacy laws, such as the GDPR, may impact our processing of certain client and employee information. Failure to comply with data protection and privacy laws and regulations could result in regulatory scrutiny and increased exposure to the risk of litigation or the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, allegations of non-compliance, whether or not true, could be costly, time consuming, distracting to management, and cause reputational harm. 26 The landscape of privacy laws applicable to our various products and services is evolving quickly. The California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which expands upon the CCPA, went into effect in 2023. Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah recently enacted their own consumer data privacy statutes, many of which are modeled on the CCPA. New data privacy statutes are slated to go into effect later this year in Delaware, Indiana, Iowa, Montana, Oregon, Tennessee, and Texas. In addition, there are a number of other legislative proposals worldwide, including in the United States at both the federal and state level, that could impose additional and potentially conflicting obligations in areas affecting our business. Newly-passed legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect the ability of our clients to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, which could reduce demand for our solution. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose and adopt new and different self-regulatory standards. Because the interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our solution. Any failure to comply with government regulations that apply to our applications, including privacy and data protection laws, could subject us to liability. In addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solution, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns and claims, even if unfounded, or inability to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage to our reputation, reductions in our sales and other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our clients employees to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our clients and their employees to use our applications and services effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications and services in certain industries. Certain of our products and services use data-driven insights to help our clients manage their businesses more efficiently. We believe that providing insights from aggregated data, including those insights derived from generative AI and machine learning, will become increasingly important to the value that our solutions and services deliver to our customers. Known risks of generative AI currently include accuracy, bias, privacy, security and data provenance. Regulatory and legislative authorities in the United States and the European Union have enacted or proposed legislation that imposes or would impose restrictions on the development of generative AI and machine learning. Our ability to provide data-driven insights using generative AI or machine learning may be constrained by current or future regulatory requirements, statutes or ethical considerations that could restrict or impose burdensome and costly requirements on our ability to leverage data in innovative ways. As we continue to pursue such new technologies, our failure to adequately address legal risks relating to the use of generative AI and machine learning in our applications could result in litigation regarding, among other things, intellectual property, privacy, employment, civil rights and other claims that could result in liability for the Company. The use of generative AI and machine learning may also result in new or increased governmental or regulatory scrutiny. Any actual or alleged noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations, or failure to meet client expectations with respect to the use of generative AI and machine learning, could result in negative publicity or harm to our reputation and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. The adoption of new, or adverse interpretations of existing U.S. state, U.S. federal, or foreign money transmitter, money services business, or payment services statutes or regulations could subject us to additional regulation and related expenses and require changes to our business. The adoption of new money transmitter, money services business, or payment services statutes or regulations in jurisdictions, changes in regulators interpretation of existing U.S. state, U.S. federal, or foreign money transmitter, money services business, or payments services statutes or regulations, or disagreements by regulatory authorities with our interpretation of such statutes or regulations, have subjected us to registration or licensing and could limit business activities until we are appropriately licensed. These occurrences could also require changes to the manner in which we conduct certain aspects of our business or invest client funds, which could adversely impact the amount of interest income we receive from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the appropriate taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. While we maintain that we are not a money services business or money transmitter in the United States and other jurisdictions, our operations in certain states and countries are or may be subject to anti-money laundering (AML) laws and regulations that require money services business or payment service business to, among other things, develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have adopted an anti-money laundering compliance program to mitigate the risk of our application being used for illegal or illicit activity and to help detect and prevent fraud. Our AML compliance program is designed to foster trust in our application and services. Any violation of applicable AML laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 We are registered as a money services business in multiple jurisdictions and intend to apply for money services business or payment services licenses in other jurisdictions as applicable. Should other U.S. state, U.S. federal, or foreign regulators make a determination that we have operated as an unlicensed money services business, money transmitter, or payment services provider, we could be subject to civil and criminal fines, penalties, costs of registration, legal fees, reputational damage or other negative consequences, all of which may have an adverse effect on our business operating results or financial condition. Further, bank regulators continue to impose additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their Bank Secrecy Act/USA PATRIOT Act obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses and third-party senders to be higher risk customers for money laundering. Thus, our banking partners that assist in processing our money movement transactions may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional material requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks willing to do business with us, may require us to materially change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our solution and applications and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. As a vendor of services, we are ordinarily held responsible by taxing authorities for collecting and paying any applicable sales or other similar taxes. Additionally, the application of federal, state and local tax laws to services provided electronically like ours is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and applications provided over the internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity, due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent, and ultimately could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe we are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we may voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with that states rules and regulations. We cannot ensure that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we currently believe no such taxes are required. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our clients to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our clients to pay fines or penalties and substantial interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our clients, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, the imposition of such taxes on us would effectively increase the cost of our software and services we provide to clients and would likely have a negative impact on our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the jurisdictions in which such taxes are imposed. Compliance with employment-related laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and lawsuits. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international employment-related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, the Family Medical Leave Act, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the National Labor Relations Act, regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the Office of Civil Rights, regulations of the Department of Labor, regulations of state attorneys general, federal and state wage and hour laws, and a variety of similar laws enacted by the federal and state governments that govern these and other employment-related matters. As our employees are located in a number of states and we are beginning to hire internationally, compliance with evolving laws and regulations could substantially increase our cost of doing business. In recent years, companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, overtime wage policies, discrimination and similar matters, some of which have resulted in the payment of meaningful damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits may be threatened or instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are currently subject to employee-related legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. While we believe that we have adequate reserves for those losses that we believe are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the ultimate results of legal proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty. While none of our employees are currently represented by a union, our employees have the right under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, our labor costs could increase and our business could be negatively affected by other requirements and expectations that could increase our costs, change our employee culture, impact corporate flexibility and disrupt our business. Additionally, our responses to any union 28 organizing efforts could negatively impact perception of our brand and have adverse effects on our business, including on our financial results. These responses could also expose us to legal risk, causing us to incur costs related to defending legal and regulatory actions, potential penalties and restrictions or reputational harm. Our background check business is subject to significant governmental regulation, and changes in law or regulation, or a failure to correctly identify, interpret, comply with and reconcile the laws and regulations to which it is subject, could materially adversely affect our revenue or profitability. We offer a background screening application called Enhanced Background Checks. In the course of providing background checks, we search and report public and non-public consumer information and records, including criminal records, employment and education history, credit history, driving records and drug screening results. Consequently, we are subject to extensive, evolving and often complex laws and governmental regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the FCRA), the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, state consumer reporting agency laws, state licensing and registration requirements, and various other foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations set forth restrictions and process requirements concerning what may be reported about an individual, when, to whom, and for what purposes, and how the subjects of background checks are to be treated. Compliance with these laws and regulations requires significant expense and resources, which could increase significantly as these laws and regulations evolve. Such increase in restrictions and compliance costs could negatively affect our ability to provide other services expected by our clients and adversely affect our offerings and revenue. Changes in law, regulation, or administrative enforcement and interpretations or other limitations and prohibitions related to the provision of consumer information and records could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. For example, numerous state and local authorities have implemented ban the box and fair chance hiring laws that limit or prohibit employers from inquiring or using a candidates criminal history to make employment decisions and many of these authorities have in recent years amended these laws to increase the restrictions on the use of such information. In addition, redaction of personal identifying information in criminal records (such as date of birth), and court rules or lawsuits that limit or restrict access to identifiers in criminal records, may negatively impact our ability to perform complete criminal background checks. The enactment of new restrictive legislation and the requirements, restrictions, and limitations imposed by changing interpretations and court decisions on such laws and regulations could prevent our customers from using the full functionality of our background screening application, which may reduce demand for such solution. We could face liability from our background check services and the information we report or fail to report in our background checks, which may not be covered, in whole or in part, by insurance. We face potential liability from individuals, classes of individuals, clients or regulatory bodies for claims based on the nature, content or accuracy of our background check services and the information we use and report. Our potential exposure to lawsuits or government investigations may increase depending in part on our clients compliance with these laws and regulations and applicable employment laws in their procurement and use of our background checks as part of their hiring process, which is generally outside of our control. Our potential liability includes claims of non-compliance with the FCRA, U.S. state consumer reporting agency laws or regulations, foreign regulations or applicable employment laws, as well as other claims of defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement. In some cases we may be subject to strict liability. We also face potential liability from our clients, and possibly third parties, in the event we fail to report information, particularly criminal records or other potentially negative information, or wrongly report such information. From time to time, we have been subject to claims and lawsuits by current and potential employees of our clients, alleging that we provided to our clients inaccurate or improper information that negatively affected the clients hiring decisions. Although the resolutions of these lawsuits have not had a material adverse effect on us to date, the costs of such claims, including settlement amounts or punitive damages, could be material in the future, could cause adverse publicity and reputational damage, could divert the attention of our management, could subject us to equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business and provision of services and result in significant legal expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and adverse publicity, and could result in the loss of existing clients and make it difficult to attract new clients. Insurance may not be adequate to cover us for all risks to which we are exposed or may not be available to cover these claims at all. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our insurance coverage, including any applicable deductibles, copays and other policy limits, will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any claims or lawsuits we may face in the future or that we will be able to renew our insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. Industry and Financial Risks Our financial results may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Our results of operations, including our revenues, costs of revenues, administrative expenses, operating income, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of 29 future performance. Fluctuations in our financial results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period include, without limitation: our ability to attract new clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients; the number of new clients and their employees, as compared to the number of existing clients and their employees in a particular period; the mix of clients between small, mid-sized and large organizations; the extent to which we retain existing clients and the expansion or contraction of our relationships with them; the mix of applications sold during a period; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; seasonal factors affecting payroll processing, demand for our applications or potential clients purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; the timing and success of new applications introduced by us and the timing of expenses related to the development of new applications and technologies; the timing and success of current and new competitive products and services offered by our competitors; economic conditions affecting our clients, including their ability to outsource HCM solutions and hire employees; changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting our clients legal obligations and, as a result, demand for certain applications; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or clients; our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including expenses related to our data centers and the expansion of such data centers and the addition of new offices; the effects and expenses of acquisition of third-party technologies or businesses and any potential future charges for impairment of goodwill resulting from those acquisitions; business disruptions caused by widespread public health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes and floods (including as a result of climate change), acts of war, terrorism, or other catastrophic events; network outages or security breaches; and general economic, industry and market conditions. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. We have historically experienced seasonality in our revenues. A significant portion of our recurring revenues relate to the annual processing of payroll tax filing forms such as Form W-2 and Form 1099 and the annual processing and filing of ACA-related forms. These forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year and, as a result, positively impact first quarter recurring revenues. In addition, unscheduled payroll runs at the end of the year (such as bonuses) have a positive impact on our recurring revenues in the fourth quarter. Although we expect the magnitude of seasonal fluctuations in our revenues to decrease in the future to the extent clients utilize more of our non-payroll applications, seasonal fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics may make such results and metrics difficult to predict. We are subject to certain operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. We maintain a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which can be accessed as needed to supplement our operating cash flow and cash balances. Although we do not currently have any outstanding indebtedness, pursuant to the Credit Agreement (as defined herein) that governs the Revolving Credit Facility, we may not, subject to certain exceptions: create or permit the existence of additional liens on our assets; incur additional debt; change the nature of our business; make investments in and acquisitions of (or acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of) any person; permit certain fundamental changes, including a merger; dispose of assets; make any distributions during an event of default, or any other distributions in excess of $50 million in any fiscal year without demonstrating pro forma compliance with certain financial covenants; enter into transactions with affiliates other than in the ordinary course of business on an arms-length basis; enter into certain transactions, including swap agreements and sale and leaseback transactions; or 30 pay dividends or distributions of our capital stock. In addition, we are required to maintain as of the end of each fiscal quarter a consolidated interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated leverage ratio of not greater than 3.5 to 1.0, stepping down to 3.25 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2024 and 3.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2025, and thereafter. The operating and financial covenants in the Credit Agreement, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. If we borrow in the future, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money available for operations, working capital, expansion, or other general corporate purposes. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations and comply with the operating and financial covenants may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to control many of these factors and comply with these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants under our Credit Agreement could result in an event of default, which could result in the acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness or foreclosure on our assets pledged to secure the indebtedness. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or earlier if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2023, we had recorded a total of $51.9 million of goodwill and $50.1 million of other intangible assets, net. An adverse change in domestic or global market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates made in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill or intangible assets, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such material charges may have a negative impact on our operating results or financial condition. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements. Management must evaluate and furnish a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and our auditors must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and/or we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE), the SEC, or other regulatory authorities and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. We have released, and may continue to release, guidance in our earnings conference calls, earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance, which represents our estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Projections are also based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results have in the past, and may in the future, vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Risk Factors section in this Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. 31 Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans, warrants or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to one hundred million shares of common stock and up to ten million shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, in part or in full, through the issuance of additional equity securities. Any issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition, the exercise of stock options or warrants, the award of shares of restricted stock or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our existing stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains an exclusive forum provision that may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if no Court of Chancery located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the Federal District Court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of Delaware law or our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws (as either may be amended from time to time) or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, this exclusive forum selection provision will not apply to claims under the Exchange Act. Moreover, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce our forum selection provision as written in connection with claims arising under the Securities Act. This forum selection provision may limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. It is also possible that, notwithstanding the forum selection clause included in our certificate of incorporation, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable. We may not continue to pay dividends or to pay dividends at the same rate as announced in May 2023. Our payment of dividends, as well as the rate at which we pay dividends, are solely at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Further, dividend payments, if any, are subject to our financial results and the availability of statutory surplus. These factors could result in a change to our recently adopted dividend policy. General Risks Adverse economic and market conditions could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for HCM applications and on the economic health of our current and prospective clients. If economic conditions in the United States or in global markets deteriorate, clients may cease their operations, eliminate or reduce unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses), reduce headcount, delay or reduce their spending on HCM and other outsourcing services or attempt to renegotiate their contracts with us. In addition, global and regional macroeconomic developments, such as 32 increased unemployment, decreased income, uncertainty related to future economic activity, reduced access to credit, increased interest rates, inflation, volatility in capital markets, and decreased liquidity, among other possible factors, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business. Furthermore, the impact of such macroeconomic developments may be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic or geopolitical events such as the ongoing military conflict in Ukraine and the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas. An economic decline could result in reductions in sales of our applications, decreased revenue from unscheduled payroll runs and fees charged on a per-employee basis, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, HCM spending levels may not increase following any recovery. Further, as part of our payroll and tax filing application, we collect and then remit client funds to taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. During the interval between receipt and disbursement, we typically invest such funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit, U.S. treasury securities and commercial paper. These investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks, and such risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. Any loss of or inability to access such funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and results of operations and could require us to obtain additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, although increased interest rates may have a negative impact on certain clients, increased interest rates have resulted in increased interest earned on funds held for clients and additional income earned on our corporate funds. Changes in interest rates will impact potential earnings of future investments. A stable or rising interest rate environment would sustain the additional interest earned on funds held for clients and interest earned on our corporate funds, whereas a decreasing interest rate environment would compress the additional interest earnings and potentially adversely affect our operating results. In recent years, there have been several instances when there has been uncertainty regarding the ability of Congress and the President collectively to reach agreement on federal budgetary and spending matters. A period of failure to reach agreement on these matters, particularly if accompanied by an actual or threatened government shutdown, may have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy. Additionally, because certain of our clients rely on government resources to fund their operations, a prolonged government shutdown may affect such clients ability to make timely payments to us, which could adversely affect our operations results or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Overview We recognize that our clients entrust us with highly sensitive data. We also recognize our attendant responsibility to safeguard the accessibility, confidentiality, and integrity of this data. Our information security program consists of policies, procedures, systems, controls and technology designed to help us prevent, identify, detect and mitigate cybersecurity risks. Our processes are informed by cybersecurity events we have observed within the Company, across our industry, and across the cybersecurity landscape. We utilize the risk management framework for risk assessments as defined by the ISO 27001 Information Security Management Standard. We have integrated cybersecurity risk management into our overall risk management framework by conducting annual enterprise risk management assessments and IT risk management assessments, implementing periodic key risk indicator tracking, and holding periodic meetings among multiple department stakeholders to address cybersecurity risks. We review our information security policies at least annually and in connection with certain process changes to ensure that they meet the needs of the organization and the goals and objectives of the information security program. Prevention, Identification, Detection and Mitigation Activities We routinely undertake activities to prevent, identify, detect and mitigate risks from cybersecurity threats, including but not limited to the following: Procedures and guidelines designed to ensure that information security is a key consideration in the requirements for both new information systems and enhancements to existing systems and assets; IT environment risk assessments conducted at regular intervals and in connection with certain events, such as implementation of a new system, service or vendor; Tabletop and simulation exercises to discuss roles and responsibilities of team members in the event of a cybersecurity incident and to test and modify the plan as needed; Ongoing security penetration testing and threat modeling of our network and web application; Automated tools and manual review processes to ensure ongoing compliance with technical standards and identify configuration issues and technical vulnerabilities; Encryption of all communications with our servers, which are configured to utilize only high-grade encryption algorithms; and Ongoing employee training related to information security and data privacy policies and standards, including periodic phishing, vishing, and social engineering exercises. We also have implemented and continue to maintain policies, procedures, systems, controls and technology to oversee and identify the cybersecurity risks associated with our use of third-party service providers. For example, we conduct thorough cybersecurity risk assessments of all third-party service providers prior to engagement and ongoing monitoring to ensure compliance with our robust cybersecurity requirements. The monitoring includes periodic audits of third-party systems and vendors. We engage third-party consultants and auditors in connection with assessing, identifying and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. Our collaboration with these third parties includes independent audits, threat assessments, and consultation on security enhancements. Infrastructure; Network and Physical Security Our IT infrastructure is secured and monitored using a number of leading practices and tools across physical and logical security. This security is also continually monitored by our information security department. We strictly regulate and limit all access to servers and networks at each of our facilities. Local network access is restricted by domain authentication, using stringent access control lists. Remote network access is restricted by a defense-in-depth approach that includes redundant firewalls, preventing unauthorized access from external networks to systems within our local network. We also employ (i) network and endpoint intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, and data loss prevention sensors throughout our infrastructure, (ii) systems that monitor our infrastructure and alert our continuously staffed security operations center of potential cybersecurity issues, and (iii) a seasoned process for managing and installing patches for third-party applications. Incident Response We maintain plans to address any cybersecurity incidents, including but not limited to Crisis Management Policies and Procedures, an Incident Response Plan, an Information Security Incident Management Policy and a Business Resiliency/Continuity Management Policy. Information security continuity is embedded in our business continuity management system to minimize the risk that continuity operations could result in a compromise to our security standards. We conduct business continuity, crisis communications and disaster recovery exercises at least annually to test and modify the plan, as needed. The activities related to the business continuity management system are routinely reported to executive management as part of our IT security teams ongoing metrics reporting. In addition, reports related to activities and outcomes are provided to the audit committee on a quarterly basis. 34 Certifications and Audits We maintain the following ISO certifications related to our information systems: ISO 22301:2019 (standard for implementing and managing an effective business continuity management system); ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (security standard for information security management systems, covering our production, quality assurance and implementation environments); ISO 27701:2019 (standard for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving a privacy information management system); and ISO 9001:2015 (standard for the implementation of quality management processes). We voluntarily obtain third-party security examinations relating to our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with SOC 1. Our SOC 1 examination is conducted every six months by one of the four largest independent international auditing firms, and addresses, among other areas, our physical and environmental safeguards for production data centers, data availability and integrity procedures, change management procedures and logical security procedures. We also obtain third-party examinations relating to our internal controls over security and privacy in accordance with SOC 2. Our SOC 2 examination is conducted every year and addresses, among other areas, internal controls around security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy. We publish SOC 1 reports semiannually and SOC 2 and SOC 3 reports annually. Impact of Risks from Cybersecurity Threats We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the ordinary course of business and will continue to experience risks from cybersecurity threats that could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Although prior cybersecurity incidents have not had a material adverse effect on our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition to date, any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients to discontinue the use of our solution, prevent us from attracting new clients, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory investigations and fines or other actions or liabilities, any of which could materially adversely affect our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Governance Both management and the Board of Directors are actively involved in the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. Our information security program is designed to ensure that management and the Board of Directors are adequately informed about, and provided with the tools necessary to monitor, (i) material risks from cybersecurity threats and (ii) our efforts related to the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents. Role of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has delegated to the audit committee primary responsibility for overseeing enterprise risk management, including oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. The audit committee receives quarterly reports and updates from our Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security with respect to cybersecurity risk management. Such reports cover the Companys information security program, including its current status, capabilities, objectives and plans, as well as the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape. Role of Management The Chief Information Officer oversees the activities of our IT and information security teams. Our Chief Information Officer has been with Paycom since 2005 and has more than 30 years of IT and software development experience. The Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security, who reports to our Chief Information Officer, is responsible for ensuring that both new implementations and ongoing operations comply with the policies, procedures, and guidelines of our information security program. Our Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security has been with Paycom for over a decade and has worked in technology development, improvement, infrastructure, and security for over 25 years. The Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security is supported by our Director of IT Security, who has worked in technology development, improvement, infrastructure, and security for over a decade. The Director of IT Security is responsible for the growth and implementation of the information security and data privacy programs and oversees the operations of the information security team. The Director of IT Security also provides oversight for information security and privacy policies and controls, oversees compliance activities, and provides metrics and guidance to executive management regarding the program. The aforementioned leaders and teams have a breadth of experience and manage programs related to governance, risk, and compliance; data privacy and security; vulnerability management; security operations; and application security. The Chief Information Officer is regularly informed about the latest developments in cybersecurity, including potential threats and innovative risk management techniques. This ongoing knowledge acquisition is crucial for the effective prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents. As discussed above, our information systems are routinely reviewed for compliance with information security policies and standards. Outcomes of reviews and audits are reported to the Director of IT 35 Security, Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security, and the Chief Information Officer. Relevant information about security nonconformities, incidents, and events are reported to the working group described below and to the Board of Directors. As discussed above, the Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President of IT and Information Security report to the audit committee and the Board of Directors on cybersecurity matters at least quarterly. In addition, we have established a working group composed of senior leaders from various departments, including operations, finance, IT, information security, audit, and legal. This working groups responsibilities include (i) ensuring that information security goals and objectives are identified, meet organizational and business requirements, and are integrated into relevant processes, (ii) reviewing the effectiveness of the information security program, (iii) providing clear direction and highly visible management support for security initiatives, (iv) providing resources required for information security projects and initiatives, (v) overseeing programs to maintain information security awareness, including training and team-specific guidance, and (vi) coordinating the information security aspects of supplier relationships. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters is an approximately 500,000-square-foot campus located on over 150 acres of Company-owned property in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. We are currently constructing a 315,000-square-foot building at our Oklahoma City headquarters. We also have an operations facility on approximately 14 acres of Company-owned property in Grapevine, Texas. In addition to housing two fully redundant data centers at our corporate headquarters in Oklahoma City, we operate another fully redundant data center at our Grapevine facility. As of December 31, 2023, we lease offices in 28 states and in certain international locations. We believe that these facilities are suitable for our current operations and, upon the expiration of the terms of the leases, we believe we could renew these leases or find suitable space elsewhere on acceptable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various disputes, claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including commercial, intellectual property and employment-related matters, as well as stockholder derivative actions, class action lawsuits and other matters. The litigation matters described below involve issues or claims that may be of particular interest to our stockholders, regardless of whether any of these matters are material to our business or financial condition based upon the standard set forth in the SECs rules. We believe we have substantial defenses in each matter and we intend to vigorously defend against the claims brought by plaintiffs in these lawsuits. On August 22, 2023, an individual on behalf of herself and her two minor children filed a class action lawsuit against our wholly owned subsidiary, Paycom Payroll, LLC, in the District Court of Oklahoma County. See Carmen Johnson et al. v. Paycom, No. CJ-2023-4763. The complaint relates to the previously disclosed cybersecurity incident involving a third-party vendor, MOVEit, and alleges claims and damages resulting from that matter, including claims for negligence, breach of implied contract, invasion of privacy, unjust enrichment and a request for declaratory and injunctive relief. On November 10, 2023, a stockholder filed a securities class action lawsuit against the Company, Chad Richison (in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer) and Craig Boelte (in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer), in the U.S. District Court, Western District of Oklahoma, on behalf of a class of acquirers of Company securities between May 3, 2023 and November 1, 2023. See Angelo Ventrillo Jr. v. Paycom Software, Inc., et al., Case Number CIV-23-1019-F. Similar securities class action lawsuits, involving substantially similar allegations, have also been filed. See Minarik v. Paycom Software, Inc., et al., Case Number 5:24-CV-00014-J in the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma; Schoenrock v. Paycom Software, Inc., et al., Case Number 5:24-CV-00012-F in the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma; and Caloto v. Paycom Software, Inc., et al., Case Number 5:24-cv-00019-R in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (transferred to the Western District of Oklahoma on January 9, 2024). The plaintiffs are currently seeking consolidation, designation as lead plaintiff and certification as class representative under Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The plaintiffs have brought multiple claims, including for violations of the federal securities laws under the Exchange Act, on behalf of persons or entities who purchased or otherwise acquired publicly traded Paycom securities during a disputed class period. Plaintiffs claim they incurred losses based on materially false and misleading statements made by the defendants during the class period, which led plaintiffs to invest in Paycom securities. The plaintiffs are seeking remedies including, but not limited to, compensatory damages, reimbursement of out-of-pocket costs, and injunctive relief. On January 12, 2024, a stockholder filed a stockholder derivative complaint in the U.S. District Court, District of Delaware, against the Company and the members of the Board of Directors, invoking the allegations set forth in the Ventrillo, Caloto, Schoenrock and Minarik lawsuits described above. The complaint alleges breaches of fiduciary duties and violations of federal law. The plaintiffs seek to recover unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the Company. See Chelsey Moon, Derivatively on Behalf of Nominal Defendant Paycom Software, Inc., v. Chad Richison, et al., Case No. 1:24-cv-00046-UNA. 36 We believe that the resolution of current pending legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Nonetheless, we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, as legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties, and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol PAYC. As of February 8, 2024, there were approximately 3,209 holders of record of our common stock. This number is based on the actual number of holders registered at such date and does not include holders whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividends In May 2023, our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy under which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The following table summarizes dividend activity during 2023. Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Dividend Total Cash Dividends Paid (in thousands)(1) October 30, 2023 November 27, 2023 December 11, 2023 $ 0.375 $ 21,471 July 31, 2023 August 28, 2023 September 11, 2023 $ 0.375 $ 21,636 May 15, 2023 May 30, 2023 June 12, 2023 $ 0.375 $ 21,731 (1) All unvested equity incentive awards currently outstanding are entitled to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, provided that such dividends or dividend equivalents are withheld by the Company and distributed to the applicable holder upon vesting of the award. Dividends declared, as reported in the consolidated statements of stockholders equity, includes dividends and dividend equivalents payable to holders of unvested equity incentive awards and, as a result, exceeds the amount of total cash dividends paid presented in this column. On February 5, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.375 per share of common stock payable on March 18, 2024 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 4, 2024. The declaration, timing and amount of each quarterly cash dividend are subject to the discretion and approval of the Board of Directors, including a determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with applicable law. The Board of Directors retains the power to modify, suspend, or cancel the dividend policy in any manner and at any time that it may deem necessary or appropriate. 38 Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our filings with the SEC, the following performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or soliciting material under the Exchange Act and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Software & Services Index during the five-year period commencing on December 31, 2018 and ending on December 31, 2023. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our common stock and in each of the comparative indices at the beginning of the period, and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. Purchases of Equity Securities The number of shares of common stock repurchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2023 is set forth below: Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(1) October 1 - 31, 2023(2) 27 $ 268.26 27 $ 1,012,011,000 November 1 - 30, 2023(3) 708,197 $ 172.81 708,197 $ 889,625,000 December 1 - 31, 2023(4) 484,127 $ 187.01 484,127 $ 799,088,000 Total 1,192,351 1,192,351 (1) Pursuant to a stock repurchase plan announced on November 20, 2018, we were authorized to purchase (in the aggregate) up to $150.0 million of our common stock in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or by other means. On May 13, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors increased the availability under the existing stock repurchase plan to $300.0 million and extended the expiration date to May 13, 2023. On June 7, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors increased the availability under the existing stock repurchase plan to $550.0 million and extended the expiration 39 date to June 7, 2024. On August 15, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors increased the availability under the existing stock repurchase plan to $1.1 billion and extended the expiration date to August 15, 2024. (2) Consists of shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations for certain employees upon the vesting of equity incentive awards. (3) Includes 2,027 shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding for certain employees upon the vesting of equity incentive awards. (4) Includes 5,174 shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding for certain employees upon the vesting of equity incentive awards. Item 6. Reserved 40 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with managements perspective on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and certain other factors that may affect our future results. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K). The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. See Cautionary Statements for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks, and assumptions associated with those statements. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, particularly in the section entitled Risk Factors. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our and the Company refer to Paycom Software, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All amounts presented in tables, other than per share amounts, are in thousands unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading provider of a comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management solution delivered as Software-as-a-Service. We provide functionality and data analytics that businesses need to manage the complete employment lifecycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our solution requires virtually no customization and is based on a core system of record maintained in a single database for all HCM functions, including talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and human resources management applications. Our user-friendly software allows for easy adoption of our solution by employees, enabling self-management of their HCM activities in the cloud, which reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed and (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. We serve a diverse client base in terms of size and industry. None of our clients constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our revenues are primarily generated through our sales force that solicits new clients and our client relations representatives (CRRs) who sell new applications to existing clients. Our continued growth depends on attracting new clients through further penetration of our existing markets and geographic expansion into new markets, targeting a high degree of client employee usage across our solution, and introducing new applications to our existing client base. We believe our ability to continue to develop new applications and to improve existing applications will enable us to increase revenues in the future, and the number of our new applications adopted by our clients has been a significant factor in our revenue growth. We plan to open additional sales offices in the future to further expand our market presence. Our principal marketing efforts include national and local advertising campaigns, email campaigns, social and digital media campaigns, search engine marketing methods, sponsorships, tradeshows, print advertising and outbound marketing including personalized direct mail campaigns. In addition, we generate leads and build recognition of our brand and thought leadership with relevant and informative content, such as white papers, blogs, podcast episodes and webinars. Throughout our history, we have built strong relationships with our clients. As the HCM needs of our clients evolve, we believe that we are well-positioned to expand the HCM spending of our clients and we believe this opportunity is significant. To be successful, we must continue to demonstrate the operational and economic benefits of our solution, as well as effectively hire, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Growth Outlook, Opportunities and Challenges As a result of our significant revenue growth and geographic expansion, we are presented with a variety of opportunities and challenges. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. Consequently, we have historically generated the majority of our revenues from our payroll applications, although our revenue mix has evolved and will continue to evolve as we develop and add new non-payroll applications to our solution. We believe our strategy of focusing on increased employee usage is an important differentiator for attracting new clients and is also key to long-term client satisfaction and client retention. For example, in 2021, we launched our industry-first Beti technology, which further automates and streamlines the payroll process by empowering employees to do their own payroll. Client adoption of new applications and, historically, client employee usage of both new and existing applications have been significant factors in our revenue growth. Nonetheless, because Beti is designed to eliminate payroll errors that lead to billable corrections and 41 unscheduled payroll runs, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a reduction in these activities that would otherwise generate additional revenue for us. In order to increase revenues and continue to improve our operating results, we must also attract new clients. We intend to obtain new clients by (i) continuing to leverage our sales force productivity within markets where we currently have existing sales offices, (ii) expanding our presence in markets where we currently have an existing sales office through adding sales teams or offices, thereby increasing the number of sales professionals within such markets, and (iii) opening sales offices in new markets. The market for HCM software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to intensify as new market entrants and disruptive technologies emerge and increasingly aggressive pricing and client retention strategies persist. Historically, our target client range has been organizations with 50 to 10,000 employees. In 2023, we expanded our target client size range to include organizations with more than 10,000 employees. While we continue to serve a diversified client base ranging in size from one employee to many thousands of employees, the average size of our clients has grown significantly as we have organically grown our operations and increased the number of applications we offer. Furthermore, with the launch of our Global HCM solution and expansion of payroll services into certain international markets, such as Canada and Mexico, we expect that our ability to serve organizations with international employees makes our solution more attractive to larger companies, many of which have a global presence. We believe larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase our revenues per client, with limited incremental cost to us. Because we charge our clients on a per employee basis for certain services we provide, any increase or decrease in the number of employees of our clients will have a positive or negative impact, respectively, on our results of operations. A multitude of macroeconomic pressures, such as inflation and rising interest rates, impact our clients hiring practices to varying degrees and, in turn, impact our revenues. Generally, we expect that changes in certain factors affecting our performance will correlate with improvement or deterioration in the labor market. For example, the performance of our pre-employment services offerings is sensitive to changes in hiring trends and we believe it will reflect the current slowdown in hiring among U.S. employers. Based on our total revenues, we have grown at a 23% compound annual growth rate from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2023. Growing our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial investments in sales professionals, operating expenses, system development and programming costs and general and administrative expenses, which have increased and will continue to increase our expenses. Specifically, our revenue growth and geographic expansion drive increases in our employee headcount, which in turn precipitates increases in (i) salaries and benefits, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and (iii) facility costs related to the expansion of our corporate headquarters and operations facilities and additional sales office leases. We believe the challenges of managing the ever-changing complexity of payroll and human resources will continue to drive companies to turn to outsourced providers for help with their HCM needs. The HCM industry historically has been driven, in part, by legislation and regulatory action, including COBRA, changes to the minimum wage laws or overtime rules, and legislation from federal, state, or municipal taxation authorities. The implementation of the Affordable Care Act (the ACA) is an example of legislation that has created demand in the HCM industry. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 2% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2024. For each of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, our gross margins were approximately 84%, 85% and 85%, respectively. Although our gross margin may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality and hiring trends, we expect that our gross margin will remain relatively consistent in future periods. 42 Key Metrics In addition to the U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we also monitor the following metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance and identify trends affecting our business: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Key performance indicators: Clients 36,820 36,561 33,875 Clients (based on parent company grouping) 19,481 19,081 17,703 Sales teams 55 55 51 Annual revenue retention rate(1) 90 % 91 % 94 % (1) As described below, during 2023, we modified the method by which we calculate annual revenue retention rate. Amounts for 2022 and 2021 have been recast to reflect the new methodology. Clients. When we calculate the number of clients at period end, we treat client accounts with separate taxpayer identification numbers (or, in certain circumstances, separate client codes) as separate clients, which often separates client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients to provide an accurate gauge of the size of our business. Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to clients throughout this Form 10-K refer to this metric. Clients (based on parent company grouping). When we calculate the number of clients based on parent company grouping at period end, we combine client accounts that have identified the same person(s) as their decision-maker regardless of whether the client accounts have separate taxpayer identification numbers (or, in certain circumstances, separate client codes), which often combines client accounts that are affiliated with the same parent organization. We track the number of our clients based on parent company grouping to provide an alternate measure of the size of our business and clients. Sales Teams. We monitor our sales professionals by the number of sales teams at period end. CRRs and emerging markets representatives are counted as one sales team. Each outside sales team typically consists of a sales manager and approximately eight sales professionals. Certain larger metropolitan areas can support more than one sales team. We believe the number of sales teams is an indicator of potential revenues for future periods. Annual Revenue Retention Rate. Our annual revenue retention rate tracks the percentage of revenues that we retain from our existing clients. We monitor this metric because it is an indicator of client satisfaction and revenues for future periods. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we modified the method by which we calculate annual revenue retention rate. Prior period amounts have been recast to reflect the new methodology. We now calculate annual revenue retention rate for any 12-month period (a Measurement Period) as follows: Total Revenues Interest Earned on Funds Held for Clients TTM Revenue Attrition Total Revenues Interest Earned on Funds Held for Clients The trailing 12-month value of revenue from clients lost during the Measurement Period (TTM Revenue Attrition) is equal to the actual recurring fees paid by such lost clients during the 12 months preceding the respective dates on which they last processed payroll with us. The point at which a client is deemed lost is determined based on the terms of our standard services agreement with clients. Beginning in July 2023, commensurate with operational changes related to how we mobilize our services department to manage relationships with clients that have missed a payroll, we amended our standard services agreement and, as a result, the point at which a client was deemed lost accelerated. Due to this change in methodology, the TTM Revenue Attrition for the year ended December 31, 2023 (i) includes revenue from certain former clients deemed lost in December 2023 that, under the historical methodology, may have been deemed lost in early 2024, and (ii) excludes revenue from certain former clients that, under the historical methodology, may have been deemed lost in early 2023 but was instead included in the TTM Revenue Attrition for the year ended December 31, 2022. In addition, due to rising interest rates and higher average balances of funds held for clients, we determined that interest earned on funds held for clients should be excluded from the annual revenue retention rate calculation beginning in 2023. In prior years, we did not believe that the interest earned on funds held for clients was material for purposes of this calculation. 43 Components of Results of Operations Sources of Revenues Revenues consist of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues. We expect our revenues to increase as we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients. As a percentage of total revenues, we expect our mix of recurring revenues, and implementation and other revenues to remain relatively constant. Recurring Revenues Recurring revenues are derived primarily from our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications as well as fees charged for form filings and delivery of client payroll checks and reports. We generate revenues from (i) fixed amounts charged per billing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed and (ii) fixed amounts charged per billing period. We do not require clients to enter into long-term contractual commitments with us. Our billing period varies by client based on when each client pays its employees, which may be weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly or monthly. Because recurring revenues are based, in part, on fees for use of our applications and the delivery of checks and reports that are levied on a per-employee basis, our recurring revenues increase as our clients hire more employees. Recurring revenues are recognized in the period services are rendered. Recurring revenues include revenues relating to the annual processing of payroll tax filing forms and ACA form filing requirements and revenues from processing unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses) for our clients. These payroll forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year and many of our clients are subject to ACA form filing requirements in the first quarter, which positively impacts first quarter revenues and margins. We anticipate our revenues will continue to exhibit this seasonal pattern related to ACA form filings for so long as the ACA (or replacement legislation) includes employer reporting requirements. In addition, our recurring revenues during the fourth quarter are positively impacted by unscheduled payroll runs for our clients that occur before the end of the year. Nonetheless, we expect the magnitude of these seasonal fluctuations in our revenues to decrease to the extent clients utilize more of our non-payroll applications. Recurring revenues also include interest earned on funds held for clients. We collect funds from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. These collections from clients are typically disbursed from one to 30 days after receipt, with some funds being held for up to 120 days. We typically invest funds held for clients in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and commercial paper until they are paid to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. As we introduce new applications, expand our client base and renew and expand relationships with existing clients, we expect our average funds held for clients balance and, accordingly, interest earned on funds held for clients, will increase; however, the amount of interest we earn can be positively or negatively impacted by changes in interest rates. Implementation and Other Revenues Implementation and other revenues consist of implementation fees for the deployment of our solution and other revenues from sales of time clocks as part of our time and attendance services. Non-refundable implementation fees are charged to new clients at inception and upon the addition of certain incremental applications for existing clients. These fees generally range from 10% to 30% of the annualized value of the transaction. Implementation revenues are recognized as deferred revenue and amortized into income over the life of the client, which is estimated to be ten years, and other revenues are recognized upon shipment of time clocks. Implementation and other revenues comprised approximately 1.7% of our total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of expenses related to hosting and supporting our applications, hardware costs, systems support and technology and depreciation and amortization. These costs include employee-related expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) and other expenses related to client support, bank charges for processing ACH transactions, certain implementation expenses, delivery charges and paper costs. They also include our cost for time clocks sold and ongoing technology and support costs related to our systems. The amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to cost of revenues is determined based upon an estimate of assets used to support our operations. Administrative Expenses Administrative expenses consist of sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses for our direct sales and marketing staff (such as the amortization of commissions and bonuses and non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), marketing expenses and other related costs. Based on positive results from our advertising campaigns, we plan to continue to invest in our marketing program and may adjust spending levels in future periods as we see opportunities for favorable returns on our investments. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses (including 44 non-cash stock-based compensation expenses) for our development staff, net of capitalized software costs for internally developed software. We expect to grow our research and development efforts as we continue to broaden our payroll and HR solution offerings and extend our technological solutions by investing in the development of new applications and enhancements for existing applications. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for finance and accounting, legal, human resources and management information systems personnel (including non-cash stock-based compensation expenses), legal costs, professional fees and other corporate expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of (i) the amount of depreciation and amortization of property and equipment allocated to administrative expenses (based upon an estimate of assets used to support our selling, general and administrative functions) and (ii) amortization of intangible assets. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest on our long-term debt and settlements related to an interest rate swap prior to the termination of the interest rate swap agreement on August 24, 2022. Prior to the repayment of our long-term debt in November 2023, we capitalized interest costs incurred for indebtedness related to construction in progress. See Note 6. Long-Term Debt for discussion of the repayment of our debt. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net includes interest earned on our own funds, any gain or loss on the sale or disposal of fixed assets, costs associated with the early repayment of debt, loss on the extinguishment of debt, and the realized gain that resulted from the settlement of our interest rate swap agreement. Provision for Income Taxes Our consolidated financial statements include a provision for income taxes incurred for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as for any operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We recognize a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the net amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. 45 Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of income data and such data as a percentage of total revenues for each of the periods indicated, as well as year-over-year changes with respect to each line item. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2023, for a discussion of results for the year ended December 31, 2021, including a discussion of the changes in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 % Change Revenues Recurring $ 1,664,976 98.3 % $ 1,351,856 98.3 % 23.2% Implementation and other 28,698 1.7 % 23,362 1.7 % 22.8% Total revenues 1,693,674 100.0 % 1,375,218 100.0 % 23.2% Cost of revenues Operating expenses 223,699 13.2 % 169,806 12.4 % 31.7% Depreciation and amortization 52,591 3.1 % 42,935 3.1 % 22.5% Total cost of revenues 276,290 16.3 % 212,741 15.5 % 29.9% Administrative expenses Sales and marketing 417,617 24.7 % 346,561 25.2 % 20.5% Research and development 198,951 11.7 % 148,343 10.8 % 34.1% General and administrative 288,137 17.0 % 239,130 17.4 % 20.5% Depreciation and amortization 61,357 3.6 % 49,764 3.6 % 23.3% Total administrative expenses 966,062 57.0 % 783,798 57.0 % 23.3% Total operating expenses 1,242,352 73.4 % 996,539 72.5 % 24.7% Operating income 451,322 26.6 % 378,679 27.5 % 19.2% Interest expense (1,927 ) -0.1 % (2,536 ) -0.2 % -24.0% Other income (expense), net 23,004 1.4 % 13,435 1.0 % 71.2% Income before income taxes 472,399 27.9 % 389,578 28.3 % 21.3% Provision for income taxes 131,611 7.8 % 108,189 7.8 % 21.6% Net income $ 340,788 20.1 % $ 281,389 20.5 % 21.1% Revenues The increase in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 from the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily the result of the addition of new clients in our target market range and productivity and efficiency gains across our sales offices, which were partially offset by a decrease in revenue generated by the sale of additional applications to our existing clients. We believe that the Beti-driven reduction in billable corrections and unscheduled payroll runs, as well as lower retention among smaller clients, also adversely impacted the magnitude of the year-over-year increase in revenues. The performance of our tax forms filing business in the first quarter of 2023 contributed to the increase in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Because we charge our clients on a per-employee basis for certain services we provide, the drivers of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 described above were impacted by the headcount fluctuations within our client base. Additionally, rising interest rates and a higher average funds held for clients balance during year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, resulted in increased interest earned on funds held for clients, which had a positive impact on recurring revenue. The average daily balance of funds held for clients was $2.2 million and $2.0 million the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in implementation and other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 from the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily the result of the increased non-refundable upfront conversion fees collected from the addition of new clients. These fees are deferred and recognized ratably over the ten-year estimated life of our clients. Expenses Cost of Revenues During the year ended December 31, 2023, operating expenses increased from the prior year by $53.9 million primarily due to a $44.2 million increase in employee-related expenses attributable to growth in the number of operating personnel, a $5.0 million increase in shipping and supplies fees, and a $2.5 million increase in automated clearing house fees in connection with the increase in revenues. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $9.7 million, or 22%, primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other related fixed assets. 46 Administrative Expenses Sales and marketing During the year ended December 31, 2023, sales and marketing expenses increased from the prior year by $71.1 million due to a $51.7 million increase in employee-related expenses, including commissions and bonuses, and a $19.4 million increase in marketing and advertising expense attributable to increased spending across many components of our marketing program. Research and development During the year ended December 31, 2023, research and development expenses increased $50.6 million from the prior year primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses. As we continue the ongoing development of our platform and product offerings, we generally expect research and development expenses (exclusive of stock-based compensation) to continue to increase, particularly as we hire more personnel to support our growth. While we expect this trend to continue on an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of total revenues, we also anticipate the rate of increase to decline over time as we leverage our growth and realize additional economies of scale. As is customary for our business, we also expect fluctuations in research and development expense as a percentage of revenue on a quarter-to-quarter basis due to seasonal revenue trends, the introduction of new products, the amount and timing of research and development costs that may be capitalized and the timing of onboarding new hires and restricted stock vesting events. Expenditures for software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a three-year period on a straight-line basis. The nature of the development projects underway during a particular period, such as our international expansion, directly impacts the timing and extent of these capitalized expenditures and can affect the amount of research and development expenses in such period. The table below sets forth the amounts of capitalized and expensed research and development costs for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 % Change Capitalized portion of research and development $ 96,744 $ 66,407 46% Expensed portion of research and development 198,951 148,343 34% Total research and development costs $ 295,695 $ 214,750 38% General and administrative During the year ended December 31, 2023, general and administrative expenses increased by $49.0 million from the prior year due to a $44.0 million increase in employee-related expenses and a $5.0 million increase in accounting and legal expenses. Non-Cash Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents the non-cash stock-based compensation expense that is included within the specified line items in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 % Change Operating expenses $ 10,613 $ 4,671 127% Sales and marketing 23,870 18,659 28% Research and development 22,273 11,063 101% General and administrative 73,050 60,505 21% Total non-cash stock-based compensation expense $ 129,806 $ 94,898 37% Depreciation and Amortization During the year ended December 31, 2023, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the prior year primarily due to the development of additional technology and purchases of other related fixed assets. Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 was due to the timing and progress of construction of the expansion of our corporate headquarters, which resulted in a higher capitalization rate of interest in 2023. The increase in capitalized interest during 2023 was partially offset by increased costs due to the timing of our entrance into the Credit Agreement (as defined below) on July 29, 2022. Prior to the repayment of our long-term debt in November 2023, we capitalized interest costs incurred for indebtedness related to construction in progress. See Note 6. Long-Term Debt for discussion of the repayment of our debt. 47 Other Income (Expense), net The increase in other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to income earned on our corporate funds of $23.5 million. Additionally, as a result of the termination of the Term Loan Facility (as defined below), we incurred a loss on the extinguishment of debt of $1.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2023, which consisted of the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. See Note 6. Long-Term Debt for additional information. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is based on a current estimate of the annual effective income tax rate adjusted to reflect the impact of discrete items. Our effective income tax rate was 28% for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital and liquidity are our operating cash flow and cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of demand deposit accounts, money market funds and certificates of deposit. Additionally, we maintain a $1.0 billion senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which can be accessed as needed to supplement our operating cash flow and cash balances. As of December 31, 2023, we did not have any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We have historically funded our operations from cash flows generated from operations, cash from the sale of equity securities and debt financing. We are funding our current building expansion projects from available cash. Further, to date, all cash dividends and purchases under our stock repurchase plan have been funded from available cash. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and available sources of liquidity will be sufficient to maintain operations, make necessary capital expenditures, pay dividends and opportunistically repurchase shares for at least the next 12 months. In addition, based on our strong profitability and continued growth, we expect to meet our longer-term liquidity needs with cash flows from operations and, as needed, financing arrangements. Credit Agreement. On July 29, 2022 , we entered into a new credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as a lender, swingline lender and issuing bank, the lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the Lenders), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent. The Credit Agreement initially provided for the Revolving Credit Facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $650.0 million, and the ability to request an incremental facility of up to an additional $500.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments and certain approvals and satisfying certain other conditions. The Credit Agreement includes a $25.0 million sublimit for swingline loans and a $6.5 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement also initially provided for a $750.0 million senior secured delayed draw term loan facility (the Term Loan Facility). As discussed below, the Term Loan Facility was terminated on July 28, 2023. All loans under the Credit Agreement will mature on July 29, 2027 (the Scheduled Maturity Date). The borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) the Alternate Base Rate (ABR) plus an applicable margin (ABR Loans) or (ii) (x) the term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) plus 0.10% (the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate) or (y) the daily SOFR plus 0.10%, in each case plus an applicable margin (SOFR Rate Loans). ABR is calculated as the highest of (i) the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal in the United States as the prime rate in effect, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% and (iii) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%; provided that, if the ABR as determined pursuant to the foregoing would be less than 1.00%, such rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%. The applicable margin for ABR Loans is (i) 0.25% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is less than 1.0 to 1.0; (ii) 0.50% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 1.0 to 1.0 but less than 2.0 to 1.0; (iii) 0.75% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 but less than 3.0 to 1.0; or (iv) 1.00% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.0 to 1.0. The applicable margin for SOFR Rate Loans is (i) 1.25% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is less than 1.0 to 1.0; (ii) 1.5% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 1.0 to 1.0 but less than 2.0 to 1.0; (iii) 1.75% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 but less than 3.0 to 1.0; or (iv) 2.00% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.0 to 1.0. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on the daily amount of the undrawn portion of the revolving commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility and, prior to its termination, a quarterly ticking fee on the daily amount of the undrawn portion of the Term Loan Facility, in each case at a rate per annum of (i) 0.20% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is less than 1.0 to 1.0; (ii) 0.225% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 1.0 to 1.0 but less than 2.0 to 1.0; (iii) 0.25% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 2.0 to 1.0 but less than 3.0 to 1.0; or (iv) 0.275% if the Companys consolidated leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.0 to 1.0. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees upon drawing any letter of credit. Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to maintain as of the end of each fiscal quarter a consolidated interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 and a consolidated leverage ratio of not greater than 3.5 to 1.0, stepping down to 3.25 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2024 and 3.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2025 and thereafter. 48 On July 29, 2022, we borrowed $29.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility to repay the outstanding indebtedness under our prior credit facility, along with accrued interest, expenses and fees. The loan bore interest at the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate for the interest period in effect plus 1.25%. On July 28, 2023, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement Amendment), pursuant to which the aggregate revolving commitments thereunder were increased from $650.0 million to $1.0 billion, the Term Loan Facility was terminated and the Credit Agreement was amended in contemplation of the formation and future operating activities of Paycom Client Trust (the Client Trust) and Paycom National Trust Bank, NA (the Trust Bank). We intend to form the Client Trust to hold client payroll and related funds and the Trust Bank to serve as trustee of the Client Trust. We did not make any draws under the Term Loan Facility prior to its termination. On November 21, 2023, we fully repaid the outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility. Stock Repurchase Plan and Withholding Shares to Cover Taxes. In May 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan allowing for the repurchase of shares of our common stock in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means in accordance with federal securities laws, including Rule 10b5-1 programs. Since the initial authorization of the stock repurchase plan, our Board of Directors has amended and extended and authorized new stock repurchase plans from time to time. Most recently, in August 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.1 billion of our common stock. As of December 31, 2023, there was $799.1 million available for repurchases under our stock repurchase plan. Our stock repurchase plan may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased depends on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, shares withheld for taxes associated with the vesting of equity incentive awards and other corporate considerations. The current stock repurchase plan will expire on August 15, 2024. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we repurchased an aggregate of 1,495,752 shares of our common stock at an average cost of $200.93 per share, including 51,119 shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations for certain employees upon the vesting of equity incentive awards. Our payment of the taxes on behalf of those employees resulted in an aggregate cash expenditure of $13.9 million and, as such, we generally subtract the amounts attributable to such withheld shares from the aggregate amount available for future purchases under our stock repurchase plan. Dividends on Common Stock. For a discussion of our dividends, see Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Cash Flow Analysis Our cash flows from operating activities have historically been significantly impacted by profitability, implementation revenues received but deferred, our investment in sales and marketing to drive growth, and research and development. Our ability to meet future liquidity needs will be driven by our operating performance and the extent of continued investment in our operations. Failure to generate sufficient revenues and related cash flows could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our liquidity needs and achieve our business objectives. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures and our investment activity to continue to increase. For example, we estimate that the total cost of the current expansion project at our corporate headquarters will be between $87 million and $90 million. Capital expenditures related to this expansion began in the fourth quarter of 2021 and we expect construction to be completed in the first quarter of 2024. In addition, we purchased the naming rights to the downtown Oklahoma City arena that is home to the Oklahoma City Thunder National Basketball Association franchise. Under the terms of the naming rights agreement, we committed to make payments escalating annually from $4.0 million in 2021 to $6.1 million in 2035. The payments are due in the fourth quarter of each year. Upon the conclusion of the initial term, the agreement may be extended upon the mutual agreement of both parties for an additional five-year period. Depending on certain growth opportunities, we may choose to accelerate investments in sales and marketing, acquisitions, technology and services. Actual future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our future revenues, cash from operating activities and the level of expenditures in all areas of our business. As part of our payroll and payroll tax filing services, we collect funds from our clients for employment taxes, which we remit to the appropriate tax agencies. We typically invest these funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and U.S. treasury securities from which we earn interest income during the period between receipt and disbursement of such funds. Our cash flows from investing and financing activities are influenced by the amount of funds held for clients, which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The balance of the funds we hold depends on our clients payroll calendars, and therefore such balance changes from period to period in accordance with the timing of each payroll cycle. Our cash flows from financing activities are also affected by the extent to which we use available cash to purchase shares of common stock under our stock repurchase plan as well as equity incentive award vesting events that result in net share settlements and 49 the Company paying withholding taxes on behalf of certain employees. Additionally, we intend to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend, subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 % Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 485,037 $ 365,103 33% Investing activities (196,712 ) (23,286 ) 745% Financing activities (274,660 ) 254,587 -208% Change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 13,665 $ 596,404 -98% Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily consisted of payments received from our clients and interest earned on funds held for clients. Cash used in operating activities primarily consisted of personnel-related expenditures to support the growth and infrastructure of our business. These payments included costs of operations, advertising and other sales and marketing efforts, IT infrastructure development, product research and development and security and administrative costs. Compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, our operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2023 were positively impacted by the growth of our business. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased from the prior year due to a $357.2 million decrease in proceeds from investments from funds held for clients, a $59.9 million increase in purchases of property and equipment, and a $0.1 million increase in purchases of intangible assets, which were partially offset by a $243.7 million decrease in purchases of investments from funds held for clients and a $0.1 million increase in proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 increased from the prior year primarily due to the impact of a $240.8 million change related to the client funds obligation, which is due to the timing of receipts from our clients and payments made to our clients employees and applicable taxing authorities on their behalf, a $192.0 million increase in common stock repurchases, the payment of $64.8 million in cash dividends, a $29.0 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of debt, and a $8.8 million increase in withholding taxes paid related to net share settlements. The increase in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in payments on long-term debt and a $5.8 million decrease in payment of debt issuance costs. Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments primarily consist of leases for office space and the naming rights agreement. For additional information regarding our naming rights agreement, leases, and our commitments and contingencies, see Note 4. Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net, Note 5. Leases and Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies. We plan to continue to lease additional office space to support our growth. In addition, many of our existing lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. When applicable, our future operating lease obligations include payments due during any renewal period provided for in the lease where the lease imposes a penalty for failure to renew. Additional details on our leases, including the related future cash outflows, are included within Note 5. Leases in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere within this Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. Estimates made in accordance with U.S. GAAP that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition are described below. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions to ensure that management believes them to be reasonable under the then-current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results may materially differ from these estimates made by management under different assumptions and conditions. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates, and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position, are described below. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 50 Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our clients in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to for those goods or services. Substantially all of our revenues are revenues from contracts with clients. Sales and other applicable taxes are excluded from revenues. Recurring revenues are derived primarily from our talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management applications as well as fees charged for form lings and delivery of client payroll checks and reports. Talent acquisition includes our Applicant Tracking, Candidate Tracker, Enhanced Background Checks, Onboarding, E-Verify and Tax Credits applications. Time and labor management includes Time and Attendance, Scheduling, Time-Off Requests with GONE, Labor Allocation, Labor Management Reports/Push Reporting, Geofencing/Geotracking and Microfence tools and applications. Payroll includes Beti, Payroll and Tax Management, Vault, Everyday, Paycom Pay, Client Action Center, Expense Management, Mileage Tracker/FAVR, Garnishment Administration and GL Concierge applications. Talent management includes our Employee Self-Service, Compensation Budgeting, Performance Management, Position Management, My Analytics and Paycom Learning applications. HR management includes our Manager on-the-Go, Direct Data Exchange, Ask Here, Documents and Checklists, Government and Compliance, Benets Administration/Benefits to Carrier, Benefit Enrollment Service, COBRA Administration, Personnel Action Forms and Performance Discussion Forms, Surveys, Enhanced ACA and Clue applications. With Global HCM, a number of our HCM applications and tools are available in 15 languages and dialects and are accessible to users in more than 180 countries. The performance obligations related to recurring revenues are generally satisfied during each clients payroll period, with the agreed-upon fee being charged and collected as part of our processing of the clients payroll. Recurring revenues are recognized at the conclusion of processing of each clients payroll period, when each respective payroll client is billed. Collectability is reasonably assured as the fees are generally collected through an automated clearing house as part of the clients payroll cycle or through direct wire transfer, which minimizes the default risk. The contract period for substantially all contracts associated with these revenues is one month due to the fact that both we and the client have the unilateral right to terminate a wholly unperformed contract without compensating the other party by providing 30 days notice of termination. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution, and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. For clients who purchase multiple applications, due to the short-term nature of our contracts, we do not believe it is meaningful to separately assess and identify whether or not each application potentially represents its own, individual, performance obligation as the revenue generated from each application is recognized within the same month as the revenue from the core payroll application. Similarly, we do not believe it is meaningful to individually determine the standalone selling price for each application. We consider the total price charged to a client in a given period to be indicative of the standalone selling price, as the total amount charged is within a reasonable range of prices typically charged for our goods and services for comparable classes of client groups, which we periodically assess for price adjustments. Interest income on funds held for clients is earned on funds that are collected from clients in advance of either the applicable due date for payroll tax submissions or the applicable disbursement date for employee payment services. The interest earned on these funds is included in recurring revenues in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, as the collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are essential components of providing these services. Implementation and other revenues consist of nonrefundable upfront conversion fees which are charged to new clients to offset the expense of new client set-up as well as revenues from the sale of time clocks as part of our time and attendance application. Although these revenues are related to our recurring revenues, they represent distinct performance obligations. Implementation activities primarily represent administrative activities that allow us to fulfill future performance obligations for our clients and do not represent services transferred to the client. However, the nonrefundable upfront fee charged to our clients results in an implied performance obligation in the form of a material right to the client related to the clients option to renew at the end of each 30-day contract period. Further, given that all other services within the contract are sold at a total price indicative of the standalone selling price, coupled with the fact that the upfront fees are consistent with upfront fees charged in similar contracts that we have with clients, the standalone selling price of the clients option to renew the contract approximates the dollar amount of the nonrefundable upfront fee. The nonrefundable upfront fee is typically included on the clients first invoice, and is deferred and recognized ratably over the estimated renewal period (i.e. ten-year estimated client life). Revenues from the sale of time clocks are recognized when control is transferred to the client upon delivery of the product. We estimate the standalone selling price for the time clocks by maximizing the use of observable inputs such as our specific pricing practices for time clocks. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is not amortized, but we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or earlier if, at the reporting unit level, an indicator of impairment arises. Our business is largely homogeneous and, as a result, goodwill is 51 associated with one reporting unit. We have selected June 30 as our annual goodwill impairment testing date. A review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. The Company performed a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units had declined below its carrying value. In the qualitative assessment, we consider the macroeconomic conditions, including any deterioration of general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, including any deterioration in the environment where the reporting unit operates, changes in the products/services and regulator and political developments; cost of doing business; overall financial performance; other relevant reporting unit specific facts, such as changes in management or key personnel or pending litigation. Based on our assessment, there was no impairment recorded as of June 30, 2023. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, there were no indicators of impairment. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. We have determined that there was no impairment of long-lived assets for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Market-Based Restricted Stock Awards and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units We measure non-cash stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. We determine the fair value of stock and unit awards issued by using a Monte Carlo simulation model. This model considers various subjective assumptions as inputs, and represent our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of our judgment as it relates to market volatilities, the historical volatility of our stock price, risk-free rates and expected life. The valuation model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. Determining these assumptions is subjective and complex, and therefore, a change in the assumptions utilized could impact the calculation of the fair value of our market-based stock awards and performance-based restricted stock units and the associated compensation expense. Refer to Note 12 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our stock-based compensation awards. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income as supplemental measures to review and assess the performance of our core business operations and for planning purposes. We define (i) adjusted EBITDA as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any), the change in fair value of our interest rate swap (if any) and any loss on the extinguishment of debt and (ii) non-GAAP net income as net income plus non-cash stock-based compensation expense, certain transaction expenses that are not core to our operations (if any), the change in fair value of our interest rate swap (if any) and any loss on the extinguishment of debt, all of which are adjusted for the effect of income taxes. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are metrics that provide investors with greater transparency to the information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. We believe these metrics are useful to investors because they facilitate comparisons of our core business operations across periods on a consistent basis, as well as comparisons with the results of peer companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA is a measure that provides useful information to management about the amount of cash available for reinvestment in our business, paying dividends, repurchasing common stock and other purposes. Management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in this Form 10-K, when viewed in combination with our results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business and performance. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income are not measures of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income have limitations as analytical tools, and when assessing our operating performance, you should not consider adjusted EBITDA or non-GAAP net income in isolation, or as a substitute for net income or other consolidated statements of comprehensive income data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies and other companies may not calculate such measures in the same manner as we do. 52 The following tables reconcile net income to adjusted EBITDA, net income to non-GAAP net income and earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share on a basic and diluted basis. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2023, for a presentation of the amounts for the year ended December 31, 2021. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net income to adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 340,788 $ 281,389 Interest expense 1,927 2,536 Provision for income taxes 131,611 108,189 Depreciation and amortization 113,948 92,699 EBITDA 588,274 484,813 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 129,806 94,898 Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,222 Adjusted EBITDA $ 719,302 $ 579,711 Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net income to non-GAAP net income: Net income $ 340,788 $ 281,389 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 129,806 94,898 Loss on extinguishment of debt 1,222 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (22,331 ) (19,053 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 449,485 $ 357,234 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 57,707 57,928 Diluted 57,974 58,175 Earnings per share, basic $ 5.91 $ 4.86 Earnings per share, diluted $ 5.88 $ 4.84 Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 7.79 $ 6.17 Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 7.75 $ 6.14 Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, basic: Earnings per share, basic $ 5.91 $ 4.86 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 2.25 1.64 Loss on extinguishment of debt 0.02 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.39 ) (0.33 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, basic $ 7.79 $ 6.17 Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Earnings per share to non-GAAP net income per share, diluted: Earnings per share, diluted $ 5.88 $ 4.84 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense 2.24 1.63 Loss on extinguishment of debt 0.02 Income tax effect on non-GAAP adjustments (0.39 ) (0.33 ) Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted $ 7.75 $ 6.14 53