Managements Discussion and Analysis section included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details) and revenue grew by 21% and 18%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. Volume was $80.1 billion and $66.0 billion and revenue was $977.7 million and $831.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Capturing Opportunity From Strong Global Secular Trends Payoneer is focused on capturing the opportunity from several powerful secular trends, which we believe continue to create opportunity, and that benefit SMBs who do business across borders and the service providers supporting them, even in the face of potential disruption from global trade regulation and other factors. Digital Commerce is Accelerating More people and businesses are conducting a greater amount of their activities online than ever before, driving the rapid growth of digital commerce globally. According to the International Trade Administration, global B2B e-commerce volume is expected to reach $36 trillion by 2026, with the strongest growth expected in Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East. 4 Table of Contents SMBs That Operate Across Borders Have a Growing Need for Payment and Commerce-Enabling Solutions The growth of digital commerce has made it easier for SMBs in emerging markets to tap into overseas demand and supply. This is creating a need for new payment and commerce-enabling solutions to support these businesses. At the same time, businesses serving global customers must deal with complex local requirements in each of the markets in which they do business, often need to manage multiple banking relationships globally and face inefficiency and high transactional cost. This is especially true in emerging markets, where despite their digital maturity, many SMBs have access to only the most basic banking and payment services offered by their local financial institutions. Global banking and payment services mostly remain out of reach, forcing emerging market SMBs to seek alternative partners to help them manage their cross-border AR and AP needs. The Shift Towards a More Global Supply Chain and Outsourced Workforce Labor shortages, rising wages, increasing costs from higher inflation, and a general trend towards greater globalization are all driving businesses of all sizes to re-evaluate their workforce and sourcing strategies. Companies are looking across borders, particularly to emerging markets, for talent and leveraging independent professionals and contractors that can provide greater organizational and expense flexibility. Previously, outsourcing was more readily accessible to large corporations. The development of outsourcing platforms and the growth in the number of companies providing managed workforce services has made access to global labor available to SMBs. Businesses are also increasingly diversifying and globalizing their supply chains to access high-quality, lower-cost products and materials, and to strengthen their business resiliency. Global Regulatory and Compliance Requirements are Constantly Evolving The provision of cross-border payment services is complex and highly regulated, and ongoing changes in the regulatory landscape mean scale, expertise, and technology enabled processes are critical to success. Traditional financial institutions serving SMBs, and even modern fintech companies often lack experience in emerging markets and lack the ability to manage scaled customer onboarding and a global risk management program. Compliance programs must address global challenges and multiple regulatory frameworks designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. There are few options available to SMBs that provide a comprehensive global solution. We believe this presents a significant competitive advantage for Payoneer as we have built robust compliance infrastructure, grounded in a compliance first approach, and have nearly two decades of experience navigating the challenges associated with cross-border payments, particularly into emerging markets. Our Key Differentiators Global SMBs use their Payoneer Account to manage their end-to-end AR and AP payment flows. Sources of AR include large global marketplaces, trading partners, corporate buyers and sellers, other small firms, and their end customers. SMBs use Payoneer to manage their funds in multiple currencies. They can send funds to their local bank accounts, pay for expenses using our card products, make payments through our in-network ecosystem, and pay suppliers and workers in multiple currencies. They can also access working capital from Payoneer. Every payment a business accepts or makes also creates an opportunity for us to develop a deeper understanding of their business. Payoneer uses data insights to build and market additional features and services, which in turn accelerates commercial activity, increases volume, brings more customers into our network, and further strengthens and grows our ecosystem. The power of the Payoneer platform comes from the following pillars: Technology and Infrastructure Payoneer delivers technology-based services to our customers through a proprietary technology infrastructure that includes secure application programming interfaces (APIs) as well as web and mobile applications. Our platform supports millions of transactions, hundreds of thousands of new applicants monthly, and processes tens of billions of dollars of volume annually. We are continually working to meet more of our target customers cross-border financial and operational needs. Our financial stack uses certain proprietary technology, including that which supports our customer-facing systems, back-office systems and risk management and compliance systems. We also rely on a wide range of third-party systems for specialized capabilities, which are integrated into our platform. We make significant and ongoing investments in our cybersecurity infrastructure and processes. 5 Table of Contents Trusted Global Brand Supported by Local Teams Payoneers customers are located in more than 190 countries and territories. To effectively serve this global customer base, we have regional sales and customer support hubs, including in the U.S., Israel, Hong Kong, Philippines, Korea, Romania, Guatemala, Poland, India, and China. These teams provide around the clock customer care in a wide range of languages across multiple channels, including mobile, online chat, email, phone and via social media. Payoneer also has a large network of customer success managers globally, providing support in a wide range of languages and promoting and supporting customer retention and growth. They enable the Company to build strong, localized relationships with customers and prospects through hosted events, industry gatherings, channel and affiliate partnerships, and direct targeting. Data Creates Competitive Advantages and Delivers Value to Customers Payoneer has built machine-learning models leveraging the data that we collect in the ordinary course of our operations and services. These models enable us to make informed predictions to better serve our customers needs. For instance, we apply our machine-learning models in key areas such as lifetime value assessment, risk management and working capital underwriting. Utilizing these unique data insights, enables us to offer new products and features, improve engagement and drive growth and improved profitability. Robust and Scalable Compliance, Risk & Regulatory Infrastructure We have designed and implemented a comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Terrorist Financing (AML/CTF) and Sanctions Program in compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions where Payoneer is regulated. Through our AML/CTF program we manage the compliant onboarding and ongoing monitoring of our customers. Our Know Your Customer (KYC) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD) processes are managed through a proprietary infrastructure and are supported by dedicated teams, combining automated tools and operational processes with regular audits and reviews to test and monitor for compliance. We also have a robust risk management framework designed to effectively address and mitigate risks across our global operations. We are regulated as a non-bank financial institution in key markets around the world, namely the United States, Europe, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, and Australia, via local subsidiaries. In the United States, we are registered as a Money Service Business and are licensed as a Money Transmitter in all U.S. states in which such licenses are necessary for our business and in the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Payoneer Europe Limited is an Electronic Money Institution authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland covering the European Economic Area (EEA) and is an approved Mastercard issuer. Payoneer Payment Services (UK) Limited is an Electronic Money Institution authorized by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority. Payoneer Hong Kong Limited is a licensed Money Services Operator with the Customs and Excise Department in Hong Kong. Payoneer Japan Limited is a Registered Fund Transfer Service Provider with the Kanto Finance Bureau in Japan. Payoneer Singapore Pte Limited is licensed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore as a Major Payment Institution. Payoneer Australia Pty Limited is licensed by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission to deal in non-cash payment products. We also have a regulatory authorization in India, where we act as an Online Payment Gateway Service Provider, approved by the Reserve Bank of India. Customers receiving regulated financial services are onboarded to and receive terms and conditions from one or more of the regulated entities in our group, depending on the customers country of residence or incorporation and the products provided. Each of our regulated entities is obligated to implement compliance programs, protect customer funds and meet other regulatory obligations under the supervision and oversight of the local regulators. Global Banking and Treasury Infrastructure Payoneer has invested significantly in building a resilient, global payment infrastructure and treasury management capabilities. We work with close to 100 banks and payment service providers globally and through those partners have access to local clearing systems, allowing us to receive and deliver payments efficiently in the local markets in which our customers operate. 6 Table of Contents Key Customer Segments SMBs Doing Business on Global Marketplaces The global e-commerce and service marketplace payouts business is estimated to be a $300 billion volume opportunity, based on third-party research conducted in 2022. Payoneer is a market leader and enables SMBs from around the world to access the aggregated consumer demand on these marketplaces and get paid as if they were local to the end consumers they are selling to. B2B SMBs Payoneer also serves SMBs looking to pay, and get paid directly by, other businesses ("B2B SMBs"). This is a $6 trillion volume opportunity based on third-party research conducted in 2022. We enable SMBs to create and manage invoices, bill their customers in multiple currencies and support local and global payment methods. We enable SMBs to pay their suppliers, vendors, and contractors in multiple currencies and countries, one by one or in bulk. In addition, we provide global workforce and payroll management services to SMBs to help engage, onboard, pay and manage their international employees and contractors. SMBs Selling Direct to Consumer In 2022, Payoneer began supporting SMBs selling Direct to Consumer (DTC) via our Checkout product, which customers can use to sell directly to consumers around the world via their web store or via an integration into commerce enabling platforms. This extension of our financial stack enables us to serve more of our customers needs and creates an opportunity for Payoneer to access a market opportunity which, based on third-party research conducted in 2022, is approximately $150 billion in volume. Payoneers Financial Stack Payoneer is purpose-built for SMBs doing business cross-border and we are able to support a wide range of customers and deliver a growing product and feature set to meet their needs. The Payoneer Account The Payoneer Account enables SMBs to receive, manage, and make payments in multiple currencies. Our customers can receive funds from marketplaces, other businesses and customers, trading partners and more. They can accept payments locally in the country where their buyer is located and, often, in the buyers local currency. Once the funds are in the SMBs Payoneer Account, they are available to use as the customer decides, including by withdrawing into a local bank account, paying their suppliers and vendors or converting into different currencies before transferring. Our customers find significant value in the ability to hold and transact in multiple currencies, particularly if they are doing business in or with countries or regions that face significant macro uncertainty, banking instability and/or currency fluctuations. Billing and AR Services Payoneer offers our customers the ability to directly invoice and collect funds from their customers and supports multiple global and local payment methods, and to pay their vendors, suppliers, and contractors around the world. Payoneers customers can receive payments via credit cards and via local payment methods in the U.S., the UK and other supported markets. Physical & Virtual Cards Payoneer customers can use Payoneer physical or virtual cards to use the balances in their Payoneer Account. Our customers use these cards to access their funds through local ATM networks, tomake business purchases online and in-store at local businesses and to pay overseas suppliers and vendors. Payoneer Checkout Payoneer Checkout enables SMBs in certain jurisdictions to accept payments from customers around the world via their web store or via an integration into commerce enabling platforms. Checkout is another source of AR that SMBs can manage in their Payoneer Account, enabling merchants to unify their business across sales channels and better track all of their global sales activities. 7 Table of Contents Working Capital Payoneer provides certain SMBs with access to working capital with amounts advanced ranging from $500 to $5 million. We leverage machine learning models and underwriting processes to effectively manage risk while providing a valuable service to our customers. Global Workforce Management We provide a technology platform and services to onboard talent and enable engagement and/or employment of employees and contractors globally, workforce management, payroll processing and management, and contractor management services. Enterprise Services Payoneer provides marketplaces and other enterprise clients with services that enable them to pay sellers across the world via a broad set of localized and other payment methods including local bank payments, international wires, payments to Payoneer Accounts, e-wallets and to Payoneer physical and virtual cards. Our Growth Strategy Payoneer is solving key customer needs through our differentiated product offering and financial stack strategy and we believe we are well positioned to capture significant growth opportunities from long-term secular trends. We intend to drive continued growth by focusing on a few key areas: Adding Customers Who Fit Our Ideal Customer Profile Payoneer has approximately 2 million active customers who have a Payoneer Account and were active over the trailing twelve month period. Over 500,000 of these active customers fit the Companys ideal customer profile, defined as customers that process on average over $500 a month in volume through the Payoneer platform. We are focused on growing the number of customers who fit our ideal customer profile, particularly those who process at least $10,000 a month in volume through our platform. We aim to do this through continued customer acquisition efforts and improved retention. Payoneers strategy to grow our base of active customers who fit our ideal customer profile involves leveraging our efficient go-to-market engine to acquire and engage with more SMBs. Payoneer has three primary acquisition channels: partnerships and other relationships with ecosystem participants such as e-commerce platforms, our direct sales and marketing team, and organic traffic which benefits from our strong brand and network effects. We are also focused on improving our customer retention through initiatives to drive improved service and experience, as well as differentiated pricing models and bundling of products and services. Platform Investments to Deliver More Value to Customers and Drive Greater Average Revenue Per Customer Payoneer is making meaningful investments in extending our financial stack to add additional and enhanced financial management capabilities and additional financial services, and in driving greater customer adoption of multiple products and services. Pursue Strategic M&A and Partnerships We believe there are many opportunities to deliver additional value to more customers more quickly by supplementing our organic product development with targeted acquisitions and strategic partnerships that add new capabilities or deeper geographic penetration to our platform. We serve a large customer base with complex and broad financial needs. This offers us the opportunity to acquire companies with synergistic product and service offerings. We have built a team that is focused on leading our efforts to identify strategic growth opportunities. Seasonality Given the diverse nature of our customers and their businesses, Payoneers revenues experience seasonal fluctuations as a result of consumer and business spending patterns. Historically, we have seen revenues increase in the fourth quarter of every year, primarily as a result of higher e-commerce sales during the holiday season. 8 Table of Contents Competition Payoneer operates on a global scale and faces a very broad set of competitors. There are many types of payment providers that offer global payment services including global treasury banks that serve large corporate accounts; small local and regional banks that focus on serving local SMBs; FX companies that focus on serving SMB importers and exporters; global digital payment platforms like PayPal, Ant Group, Airwallex, or Wise; global card networks; Neobanks; SMB-focused B2B payment providers like Bill.com; mass payout service providers that specialize at providing services to enterprises and marketplaces; SMB AP/AR SaaS providers; merchant service providers like Adyen, Braintree and Stripe; and local companies that focus on enabling SMBs in one or more local markets to sell on digital marketplaces globally. For example, in China we face competition from a number of local payment providers that serve the large greater China region. In some cases, marketplaces provide their own payment capabilities to support payments to sellers. Regulation Payments Regulation Various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the U.S. and globally. Payoneer is licensed in multiple jurisdictions and, via its licensed entities, provides payment services to customers in over 190 countries and territories worldwide. In the U.S., Payoneer Inc. is a Money Services Business registered with the U.S. Treasurys Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). Payoneer Inc. is a licensed money transmitter under the laws of all U.S. states where such license is necessary for our business, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These licenses support the full range of Payoneer Account and payment services and among other obligations, subject us to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, certain limitations on the investment of customer funds and inspection by state regulatory agencies. Outside of the U.S., we provide our payment services to customers through various regulated subsidiaries. The activities of those non-U.S. entities are supervised by the financial regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which they operate and under which they are licensed to provide services. For example, in Europe we are licensed in Ireland by the Central Bank of Ireland (authorized pursuant to the European Union (EU) passporting rules to provide payment services under its license in all countries in the EEA). These regulatory authorities include the Australian Securities and Investment Commission in Australia, the Customs and Excise Department in Hong Kong, the Kanto Finance Bureau in Japan, the Monetary Authority of Singapore in Singapore, and the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. Payoneer Inc. also acts as an Online Payment Gateway Service Provider (OPGSP) approved by the Reserve Bank of India, for the purpose of facilitating the collection of cross-border payments for Indian residents. In addition, Payoneer Canada Limited has applied to the Bank of Canada for a payment service provider license; Payoneer India Private Limited has applied to the Reserve Bank of India for a Payment Aggregator Cross Border license; and Payoneer Inc. has applied to the Israel Securities Authority for a payment services provider license. There are numerous other regulatory agencies that have or may assert jurisdiction. The laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are subject to interpretation and change. Numerous laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the U.S. and internationally. Various aspects of our business are, may become, or may be viewed by regulators from time to time as subject, directly or indirectly, to U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations. As a cross-border digital payment platform, our business includes the facilitation, through our network of bank and local payment partners, of the acceptance and/or payout of funds. As such, we are subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including (but not limited to) those governing payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), stored value, cross-border and domestic money transmission, factoring, foreign exchange, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. The legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. For example, Payoneer serves customers that are located in China by providing the offshore/non-resident part of the service under the regulatory framework of Payoneer Inc., while the local settlement leg in China is supported by Payoneer partners that are entities regulated by the Peoples Bank of China (PBOC) and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These local partners include local banks and payment service providers. The PBOC may require foreign companies providing certain services to have a local license at a time to be determined by the PBOC. Accordingly, we have been working to obtain a local license through the acquisition of a local licensed entity. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in August 2023 Payoneer (Guangzhou) Commerce Services Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an agreement to purchase a locally licensed non-bank payments institution. In February 2025, we received the regulatory approvals in China required to complete this acquisition. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2025, subject to customary closing conditions and termination provisions provided for in the agreement. 9 Table of Contents We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to businesses in general, such as those relating to employment, consumer protection, data protection and privacy, worker confidentiality obligations and taxation. As an online business, we are also subject to laws and regulations governing the internet, such as those relating to intellectual property ownership and infringement, trade secrets, the distribution of electronic communications, search engines and internet tracking technologies, and could be affected by potential changes to laws and regulations that affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including with respect to net neutrality and taxation on the use of the internet or e-commerce transactions. Compliance with KYC Requirements The licensed entities of Payoneer are subject to regulations related to customer identification and verification in the jurisdictions in which they onboard customers. We are committed to preventing the use of our financial products by persons who seek to launder the proceeds of criminal activity, finance terrorism, or conduct other criminal acts. Payoneer makes reasonable efforts appropriate to the circumstances to know and verify its customers and to monitor customer activity. The KYC program is a critical component of the AML/CTF Program. KYC embodies the concept that, in order to identify what is unusual activity for a customer, one must have established a sufficient understanding of what is usual and expected activity, consistent with the purpose and intended usage of the account relationship. Activity that is outside the norm or inconsistent with an institutions understanding may be suspicious and require reporting to the appropriate authorities, as necessary. Payoneers KYC program includes: (i) policies and procedures for collecting and verifying information on the identity of customers and their businesses; (ii) policies and procedures for gathering further information about customers to gain a better understanding of the relationship and anticipated transaction activity, including a periodic review of the customers account information; and (iii) policies and procedures for monitoring customer activity throughout the lifecycle of the relationship. Our Customer Approval Policy is informed by our AML/CTF Risk Assessment, which determines the level of AML/CTF risk posed to Payoneer by its product offerings, customer base, business geographies, distribution channels, and technologies, as well as the effectiveness of Payoneers compliance-related controls, policies, and procedures in mitigating these risks. Such risks stem from applicable legal/regulatory requirements, the nature of Payoneer products/services (including features, customers and geographic reach) and the record of actual performance of the Payoneer AML/CTF compliance program. These risks are mitigated, among other controls, by the KYC controls and requirements outlined in this document. The Customer Approval Policy constitutes an integral part of Payoneers AML/CTF program and outlines our responsibilities with respect to applicable KYC requirements as detailed in pertinent US laws, regulations, and statutes, including the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), the USA PATRIOT Act, and in the relevant laws, regulations, and statutes of jurisdictions where Payoneer holds a local license. Data Protection & Privacy Regulations We collect, process, store, share, disclose, transfer, retain and/or use personal information and other data in connection with conducting our business, including for purposes of marketing our services and products via phone, email and text messages and pursuant to applicable requirements we are subject to, to verify the identity of our customers. Consequently, our business is subject globally to a number of complex laws and regulations governing data privacy and security, including with respect to such collection, processing, storage, sharing, disclosure, transfer, retention and use of personal information and other data. The data privacy and protection laws and regulations to which our business is subject may apply to personal information and data concerning our customers, employees or other third parties who interact with us, and include the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the CAN-SPAM Act, Canada Anti-Spam Law, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Section 5(c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and other laws, enactments, regulations or orders transposing, implementing, adopting, supplementing or derogating from, the GDPR in each EEA member state, including the Irish Data Protection Act 2018, the UK retained EU law version of GDPR as defined in the Data Protection Act 2018, and as amended from time to time (UK GDPR), the European e-Privacy Directive currently implemented through national European laws, the Data Security Law of the People's Republic of China, the Personal Information Protection Law of the People's Republic of China, Brazils Lei Geral de Proteo de Dados Pessoais (LGPD), the Australian Privacy Act of 1988, Singapore Personal Data Protection Act 2012, Hong Kong Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Japans Act on the Protection of Personal Information, and other data protection or privacy legislation in force from time to time. These laws and their implementing regulations generally restrict certain collection, processing, storage, use and 10 Table of Contents disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of personal information. These laws may also impose requirements for the safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information and may impose obligations to provide notification of security breaches affecting personal information to authorities and individuals impacted by such breaches. The burdens imposed by these and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or by new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require us, from time to time, to modify our data processing practices, agreements and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply with this ever-evolving regulatory landscape. We implement a variety of technical and organizational security measures and other measures to protect the data we process, including data pertaining to our customers, employees, business partners, and other third parties, but despite the measures we put in place, we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to such data. Additionally, such laws and regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. The applicability of these laws and regulations to us, and their scope and interpretation, are often uncertain, particularly with respect to laws and regulations outside the United States. Because the laws and regulations governing payment services and data privacy and security are constantly evolving and striving to keep pace with innovations in technology and media, it is possible that we may need to materially alter the way we conduct some parts of our business activities or we may be prohibited from conducting such activities altogether at some point in the future. For additional information regarding some of the risks relating to data privacy and security, see Risk Factors - Regulatory Risks Related to Payoneer - Our business is subject to complex and evolving regulations and oversight, in relation to privacy and data protection. Failure to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations could subject us to fines and reputational harm and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Human Capital We are a company for entrepreneurs built by entrepreneurs. The people who work at Payoneer define Payoneer and help us to deliver on our mission to connect the worlds underserved businesses to a rising, global economy. As of December 31, 2024, our workforce consisted of approximately 2,407 people (including full-time, part-time and temporary employees and full-time consultants) in 44 locations across 37 countries, of which approximately 55% are located in Israel. In addition, we also engage contractors to support our operations. Our team draws from a broad spectrum of backgrounds and experiences across technology, financial services and other areas. Our Global Team and Culture We believe the employees and culture of Payoneer are critical to our success and our ability to grow our business, support our customers and partners, and deliver shareholder value. We celebrate diversity and the cultures of the world represented by our customers and employees. Our goal is to create an environment in which each employee feels comfortable being exactly who they are, where they are connected to something bigger than themselves and are given the support and opportunity to be the best they can be. We foster an environment that is defined by tolerance and caring for our fellow employees and our customers. Employee Wellness and Development Our employees are our most valuable strength at Payoneer, so we invest heavily in attracting and retaining our talented employees. We are highly focused on the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, providing them with access to a wide-reaching support network that prioritizes both physical and mental health and wellness. For example, we offer counseling and support through a Global Employee Assistance Program, participation in wellness and gym benefits, and a broad range of health care and other benefits. We also offer a Top Talent program, which is a cohort-based leadership development program for director-level employees. Over the course of one year, high-potential leaders gain executive skills and a deep understanding of Payoneer's products, services, customers, and strategy. The program includes executive coaching, in-person learning events, and small group discussions with senior leaders. 11 Table of Contents Total Rewards Payoneer is a people-centric company that rewards employees for our shared success. From a total rewards perspective, Payoneer offers a compensation and benefits package that is scalable, sustainable and equitable. The principle behind our total rewards approach is to attract, retain and engage top talent in a manner that will drive desired behaviors and increase business performance while nurturing the wellbeing of our employees. In so doing, we have built a pay for performance rewards strategy and also a governed framework that measures and monitors total rewards expenses in a fiscally responsible manner. Our annual compensation planning takes place right after our year-end performance review process where employees and managers share feedback to facilitate professional and career development and set professional and development goals for the year to come. Payoneers Global Week of Good In 2024, we held our third global volunteer event with the Global Week of Good. Employees from 18 countries participated in service projects that support their local communities. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is an important aspect of our business, and substantially all of our material intellectual property rights are currently developed in-house. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and know-how, trademark and copyright laws, confidentiality agreements, and technical measures to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and technology, including our brand and platform. We have registered our brand name as a trademark and domain names, in each case, in the United States and a number of other jurisdictions. We do not have any issued patents. We consider our digital payment platform, which provides payment, financial, merchant, working capital and other services to companies, marketplaces, e-commerce sellers, freelancers, and others, to be our proprietary technology. The development and management of our platform require sophisticated coordination among many specialized employees. We believe that duplication of this coordination by competitors or individuals seeking to copy our platform would be difficult, and to protect our technology and our platform, we implement multiple layers of security. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into confidentiality agreements with third parties to control access to, and the use and disclosure of, our confidential information. However, our contractual provisions may not always be effective at preventing unauthorized parties from obtaining our intellectual property rights and proprietary technologies or disclosing our confidential information. Likewise, intellectual property laws, procedures, and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property or proprietary rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated. For additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property rights, see Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Available Information Our website is www.payoneer.com. The information found on, or that can be accessed from or that is hyperlinked to, our website is not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investors Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that also contains these reports at: www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, on written request to us. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should be aware of in evaluating our business. If any such risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The risk factors described below should be read together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, as well as in other documents that we file with the SEC. Summary of the Material Risks Associated with Our Business These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Our success depends on our ability to develop products and services to address or adapt to the rapidly evolving markets that we serve, and if we are not able to implement successful enhancements and new features for our platform, products and services, we could lose customers or have trouble attracting new customers, and our ability to grow may be limited. If our counterparty financial institutions, banking partners or payment processors seek to terminate or adversely change our relationship due to regulatory, policy, commercial, our failure to comply with the applicable requirements of our counterparty, or any other reason, it may materially adversely affect our business. Declines in e-commerce utilization generally, and any factors that reduce cross-border trade or cross-border digital commerce, make such trade or commerce more difficult or diminish e-commerce sales and/or limit activity of e-commerce marketplaces, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to appropriately manage our customer funds, and our ability to retain and grow customer funds balances, could materially harm our business or our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates, including their impact on interest income revenue and the market value of our time deposits and U.S. Treasury Securities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business may be materially adversely affected by geopolitical and other risks associated with global operations. As we continue to expand internationally, including within emerging markets, we may become more susceptible to these risks. If we fail to comply with the applicable rules and policies of the payment network card schemes or the terms of a payment network card scheme license, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our participation license, as applicable, which could materially adversely affect our business. If a marketplace were to prevent our customers from using our services to receive payments from such marketplace, or if we are unable to renew certain marketplace and enterprise customer contracts or to adjust certain contract components at favorable terms or we lose a significant enterprise or marketplace customer, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Substantial and increasingly intense competition in the worldwide financial services and payments industry, including on pricing and payment alternatives, could materially adversely affect our margins, business and results of operations. Competitive activity by our partners and enterprise customers that insource payment services or directly compete against our services could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to effectively deal with bad, fraudulent or fictitious transactions and material internal or external fraud could materially negatively impact our business. Use of our payment services for illegal purposes could materially harm our business. Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities, unauthorized disclosure, destruction or modification of data, through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, or disruption of our services, can result in material harm to our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to provide services and could be materially adversely impacted if they fail to fulfill their obligations or if our arrangements with them are terminated and suitable replacements cannot be found on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our business depends on our strong and trusted brand, and failure to maintain and protect our brand, or any damage to our reputation, or the reputation of our partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our systems and our third-party providers systems may be subject to system failures or capacity constraints, and resulting interruptions in the availability of our platform, products, or services, including the accessibility of our solutions through mobile devices, could materially harm our business. Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including (but not limited to) those governing cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, deposit taking, factoring, stored value and payment services (including payment processing and settlement services). The legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations in a variety of jurisdictions. Failure to comply could subject us to significant fines and other material adverse consequences. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, economic and trade sanctions regulations and similar laws, could subject us to penalties and other material adverse consequences. As a significant portion of our revenue is generated from China, any negative impact to our ability to serve customers based in China could materially adversely affect our results and exacerbate the other risks set forth herein. The summary risk factors described above should be read together with the text of the full risk factors below and in the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, as well as in other documents that we file with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our success depends on our ability to develop products and services to address or adapt to the rapidly evolving markets that we serve, and if we are not able to implement successful enhancements and new features for our platform, products and services, we could lose customers or have trouble attracting new customers, and our ability to grow may be limited. The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant and rapid technological changes, (including increasing adoption and development of artificial intelligence), frequent introduction of new products and services, and increasing customer expectations. Our ability to update our platform, to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services can significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services or in updating our platform in a way that meets these demands or achieve market acceptance. We must anticipate and respond to these changes in order to remain competitive within our relevant markets. Our ability to continue to develop innovative products and services for our customers could have an impact on our ability to retain customers and on their continued use of our platform. In addition, developing new and competitive services and offerings in response to industry-wide standards, including those related to safety and security, as well as evolving regulatory requirements, may require significant investment. If we are unable to anticipate or respond or adapt to technological or regulatory changes or evolving industry standards and demands on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive, and our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the success of certain of our products and services relies, in part, on marketplaces and other third parties offering or allowing the use of our products and services by their customers. If we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance and compete effectively, or if marketplaces cease to offer or allow our products and services to their merchants or refuse to pay their merchants through our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing customers, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. If our counterparty financial institutions, banking partners or payment processors seek to terminate or adversely change our relationship due to regulatory, policy, commercial, our failure to comply with the applicable requirements of our counterparty, or any other reason, it may materially adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our relationships with a number of third-party financial institutions, banking partners and payment processors to support our operations, with services such as collection, payment, processing and clearing, and settlement for the transactions we service, as well as holding and disbursement of customer funds. Without these relationships, we would not be able to process payments or settle transactions in relevant markets. In the event our agreement or relationship with a third-party financial institution, bank partner or payment processor is terminated or adversely changes due to regulatory, policy, commercial, our failure to comply with the applicable requirements of our counterparty, or any other reason, or if upon its expiration we are unable to renew the agreement on terms favorable to us, or at all, it may be difficult for us to replace these services which may materially adversely affect our operations and profitability. 14 Table of Contents These agreements and relationships may give our counterparties substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our application and qualification procedures for customers and require us to comply with certain legal and operational requirements. Discretionary actions of our counterparties under these agreements and relationships could impose material limitations to, or have a material adverse effect on, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial results could be materially adversely affected if our costs associated with such relationships materially change or if any penalty or claim for damages which may be material is imposed as a result of our breach of the agreement with them or their other requirements. These relationships are also subjects to the risks associated with third-party service providers and vendors in general, as more fully described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section. In addition, given we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, receivables and other current and non-current assets outstanding, including assets underlying our customer balances and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and other countries in which we operate, we may be, and have been, exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default, deterioration, or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one or more of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited, held in accounts with, or otherwise due from, such counterparty may be limited by the counterpartys liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, as has previously occurred, and we could incur significant losses or suffer reputational damage, which could materially and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Declines in e-commerce utilization generally, and any factors that reduce cross-border trade or cross-border digital commerce, make such trade or commerce more difficult or diminish e-commerce sales and/or limit activity of e-commerce marketplaces, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate significant portions of our volume by processing online payments from marketplaces and e-commerce platforms to merchants and generate significant portions of our revenues from merchants utilization of the payments they receive. Any decline in e-commerce utilization or cross-border trade or cross-border digital commerce could materially adversely affect our business. The extent of such impact will depend on a variety of highly uncertain factors any of which could lead to a decrease in e-commerce utilization or cross-border trade or cross-border digital commerce, including general macroeconomic trends and global economic conditions, such as inflation and recessionary conditions impacting business and consumer spending, changes in government regulation, users access to the internet, user preference, consumer behavior, actual or perceived online security concerns or the effects of widespread health epidemics. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic drove a shift in buying patterns from brick-and-mortar stores to e-commerce, while the reopening of economies, coupled with inflation, supply chain disruptions and consumer purchasing behavior changes, drove a softening in e-commerce growth rates. In addition, cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and buyer are in different countries) is imperative to our business as a source of revenue and profits. Cross-border transactions generally provide payment providers higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. Cross-border trade is subject to, and may be negatively impacted by, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as other macro-economic conditions and governmental and other actions that restrict or otherwise impact such cross-border trade. In addition, the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the buyer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade and foreign exchange. Changes to or the interpretation and/or application of laws and regulations applicable to cross-border trade and foreign exchange could further impose additional requirements and restrictions, increase costs, and present conflicting obligations. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, such as trade policies or higher tariffs (as recently threatened or imposed by certain countries, including the U.S.), and general macroeconomic trends and global economic conditions, could reduce our cross-border transactions and volume, materially and negatively impact our revenues and profits and materially harm our business. Our failure to appropriately manage our customer funds, and our ability to retain and grow customer funds balances, could materially harm our business or our results of operations. We hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including balances in customer accounts and funds in process of being remitted, at third-party financial institutions in the form of either demand deposits, time deposits, or U.S. Treasury Securities. We hold, and in certain jurisdictions are required to hold and segregate, eligible liquid assets equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer funds held by our licensed entities. Our ability to manage and accurately account for the assets underlying our 15 Table of Contents customer funds and comply with applicable liquid asset requirements and applicable regulations requires a high level of internal controls. As our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. Our continued success requires that our customers have confidence in our ability to properly manage customer balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to appropriately manage our customer funds in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products, to withdraw funds held with us and could result in significant penalties and fines and additional restrictions, each of which could materially harm our business and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Since we transfer and hold large amounts of funds for our customers, our trustworthiness and reputation are fundamental to our business. The occurrence of any operational disruptions or errors due to, for example, software defects, service disruptions, employee misconduct, security breaches, or other similar actions, omissions or errors on our platform could result in material financial losses to our business and our customers, damage to our reputation, or termination of our agreements with financial institutions and partners, each of which could result in loss of customers; lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our platform; legal claims against us; regulatory enforcement action; or diversion of our resources, including through increased service expenses or financial concessions, and increased insurance costs. There can be no assurance that the insurance we maintain will be available or sufficient to cover any losses. If we suffer significant losses or reputational harm as a result, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. When customers seek access to their cash balances, our primary source of liquidity is comprised of our demand deposits held at financial institutions. The availability of these funds could be impacted by the financial condition of the institutions within our network of providers. Given the above, and since we hold the funds underlying our customer balances with multiple banks globally, we are also subject to the risks described elsewhere in this Risk Factor section that relate to the reliance on services provided by third parties and the dependency on banks and other financial institutions. Additionally, and in connection with our interest rate risk management strategy implemented in 2024, changes in interest rates affect the market value of our time deposits and U.S. Treasury Securities. As market interest rates change, we could face a scenario where our time deposits and U.S. Treasury Securities would be redeemable at a price below their carrying value. In addition, interest rate changes that result in material realized or unrealized differences in the fair value of our time deposits and U.S. Treasury Securities versus their carrying value, could negatively impact market and customer perceptions of the Company, potentially leading to increased withdrawals of funds which could materially impact our operations. In addition, as noted elsewhere in our Risk Factors, our success depends on our ability to develop products and services to address or adapt to the rapidly evolving markets that we serve, including our ability to implement successful enhancements and new features for our platform, products and services. If we are unable to do so, we could lose customers or have trouble attracting new customers, and this, as well as macro-economic and geopolitical conditions more generally, including those factors discussed further elsewhere in our Risk Factors, each could result in a decline in customer balances, which would reduce our revenue from interest income and could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates, including their impact on interest income revenue and the market value of our time depositsand U.S. Treasury Securities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our earnings are derived from interest income earned on both corporate funds and customer funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, of particular relevance for us, the Federal Reserve. Between 2022 and 2023, the Federal Reserve raised the benchmark interest rate by 525 basis points, which benefitted our earnings during the year ended December 31, 2023. In 2024, we continued to benefit from relatively higher interest rates in the U.S., while also the U.S. Federal Reserve cut the benchmark interest rate by 100 basis points and there remains uncertainty as to the timing and magnitude of future interest rate changes. Any future decline in interest rate levels may reduce our ability to earn interest income on customer balances and/or corporate funds. While any such decline in interest rates may, generally speaking, be expected to encourage growth in economic activity, including consumer and business spending, this may not be sufficient to offset any adverse effect on our results of operations. As further discussed above, changes in interest rates could affect the market value of our time deposits and U.S. Treasury Securities such that they are redeemable at a price below their carrying value. 16 Table of Contents Our business may be materially adversely affected by geopolitical and other risks associated with global operations. As we continue to expand internationally, including within emerging markets, we may become more susceptible to these risks. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Operating in or providing services to customers in foreign countries, including Israel, Greater China and other Asian countries, Ukraine and other European countries, subjects us to multiple risks that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including: geopolitical events, including acts of war, nationalism and terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues (such as the COVID-19 pandemic and its variants), social unrest or human rights issues; differing local product preferences and product requirements; partial or total expropriation of international assets; economic sanctions and trade protection measures, including tariffs (as recently threatened or imposed by certain countries), import-export restrictions, or boycotts; differing enforceability and protection of intellectual property and contract rights; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; and potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws or policies. For example, the war in Ukraine and the subsequent economic sanctions imposed on Russia, Belarus and certain territories in Ukraine have, and may continue to negatively impact our revenue derived from services provided to customers from impacted countries. In addition, our banking partners ceased their operations in Russia, and subsequently we ceased to provide services to customers in Russia, and we have limited our payment services to Belarus customers. It is not possible to predict the broader consequences of this conflict, but the continuation or further escalation of the conflict, along with any expansion to surrounding areas, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, approximately 55% of our global employee base, including certain management members and approximately 78% of our research and development resources, are employed by our Israeli subsidiary, Payoneer Research & Development Ltd. Accordingly, political, economic, military, and regional conflict conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business and operations. Since October 7, 2023, Israel has been at war with Hamas and Hezbollah, and exchanged attacks with Iran and other proxies of the regime. The state of the ongoing conflict remains highly uncertain and could worsen or expand which can further impact economic conditions and activity in Israel, the region and the broader global economy, including revenues from customers located in the region. Our operations could be disrupted by, for example, the prolonged absence of a large number of employees due to Israel military service call-ups. While revenues derived from customers based in Israel were insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2024, and, at this time, an insignificant portion of our Israeli workforce have been called to military reserve duty, further escalation, expansion, or prolonged continuation of the conflict may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Violations of the complex foreign and United States laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations, including violations of any sanctions, can result in fines which may be material, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, or other enforcement actions; prohibitions or limits on the conduct of our business; the diversion of operational resources; and damage to our reputation. Our policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations by our employees, contractors, vendors or agents. These risks are inherent in our international operations and their expansion may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could materially harm our business, results, and reputation. In addition, we may from time to time undertake projects and make investments in countries in which we have little or no previous investment or operating experience. We may not be able to fully or accurately assess the risks of investing in such countries, or may be unfamiliar with the laws and regulations in such countries governing our investments and operations. As a result, we may be unable to effectively implement our strategy in new jurisdictions. Investment opportunities in certain jurisdictions also may be restricted by legal limits on foreign investment in local assets or classes of assets. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the applicable rules and policies of the payment network card schemes or the terms of a payment network card scheme license, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our participation license, as applicable, which could materially adversely affect our business. Payoneer (through our subsidiary) is licensed by Mastercard as a card issuer and is engaged with other Mastercard-licensed card issuers and is registered as a card program manager. Payoneer is also (through subsidiaries) registered as a payment facilitator with Mastercard and Visa and is engaged and registered with several acquirers as a merchant. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by us. In addition, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard enforced by the major card brands, and are listed with Mastercard as an SDP compliant service provider. The failure to comply with these rules can result in the imposition of monetary fines which may be material, and our member registrations or certifications could be suspended or terminated. The suspension or termination of our member registrations or certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to customers and result in a significant reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our removal from networks lists of Data Security Standard compliant service providers could mean that existing customers, partners or other third parties may cease using or referring our services. Also, prospective customers, partners or other third parties may choose not to consider us for their processing needs. In addition, the card networks could refuse to allow us to process through their networks. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to these network rules or how they are interpreted could have a material impact on our business and financial results. For example, from time to time, card associations and debit networks, including the card networks which we operate under, increase the processing and other fees (including what is commonly known as interchange fees) that they charge. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in us absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, or result in us not being able to increase our own fees, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin, limit our growth, and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Future changes to or interpretations of the network rules that are inconsistent with the way we currently operate may require us to make changes to our business that could be costly or difficult to implement. If we fail to make such changes, the networks could pass on fines and assessments in respect of fraud or chargebacks related to our customers or disqualify us from processing transactions if satisfactory controls are not maintained, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a marketplace were to prevent our customers from using our services to receive payments from such marketplace, or if we are unable to renew certain marketplace and enterprise customer contracts or to adjust certain contract components at favorable terms or we lose a significant enterprise or marketplace customer our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from SMBs and entrepreneurs that sell on or through large marketplaces and enterprise customers ecosystems. The loss of business associated or connected with a large marketplace or ecosystem could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the payments our customers received from Amazon marketplaces around the world generated 23% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2024, and accordingly, should Amazon change eligibility or other requirements for approved payment service providers on its platforms such that we are negatively impacted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. For more information, please see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, Concentration of Risks, to our consolidated financial statements included in