ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, we, us, our, Payoneer, and the Company refer to Payoneer Global Inc. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview Payoneer is a financial technology company purpose-built to enable the worlds small and medium-sized businesses (SMB(s)) to grow and operate their businesses around the world by reliably and securely connecting them to the global digital economy. Payoneers financial stack makes it easier for millions of SMBs, particularly in emerging markets, to access global demand and supply, pay and get paid, and manage their cross border and other needs from a single platform. Our financial stack provides a full suite of cross-border accounts receivable (AR) and accounts payable (AP) capabilities, and includes services such as working capital and the provision of data-driven insights. Payoneers core value proposition is that we remove the complexity and barriers of doing business across borders for our customers. With a multi-currency Payoneer Account, businesses around the world can serve and transact with their overseas customers, suppliers, vendors, and partners as if they were local. We primarily generate revenues when Payoneer customers use the funds in their Payoneer account to make a payment, to make a purchase or to withdraw the funds locally. For our Business to Business (B2B) and Direct to Consumer (DTC) customers, we also in certain circumstances generate revenue on their AR, such as when they invoice a customer or collect payments via their webstore. Additionally, given the high interest rate environment, interest earned on customer funds held on our platform has been a significant source of revenue. Our long-term strategy is centered on growing the number of customers on our platform who fit our ideal customer profile, namely those who are customers that have on average over $500 a month in volume and were active over the trailing twelve-month period, and on increasing the revenue we earn from each customer. We believe that successful execution of this strategy will drive revenue growth as (i) adding new customers who meet our ideal customer profile, improving retention, and increasing our product offerings to capture more wallet share will drive greater ad valorem volume of transactions processed through the Payoneer platform; and (ii) introducing new products and services and increasing customer adoption of additional products and services will improve our monetization of customers over time. Volume is one of the primary drivers for our revenue growth. See Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information. Our customers have trusted the Payoneer platform to process $18.5 billion and $15.3 billion in volume in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Looking forward, we intend to continue to invest actively to enhance our global platform, deliver new products, extend our regulatory footprint, further automate our operations, increase new customer growth and make more acquisitions to accelerate our ability to deliver more value to customers around the world. 25 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Key Developments and Trends Impact of the war in Israel In October 2023, in response to Hamas attack on Israel from the Gaza Strip, Israel declared war on Hamas. Concurrently, hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah ensued in the Israeli northern border. Despite the ongoing war, we have continued to operate our business and serve our customers around the world and, to date, our ability to support customers has not been materially impacted. We are monitoring the situation closely and benefit from our broad geographic footprint, partially outsourced operations model, and a robust business continuity plan. Additionally, our technology infrastructure has redundancy in place outside of Israel. Approximately 60% of our global employee base is located in Israel, including approximately 85% of our research and development resources. At this time, an insignificant portion of our Israeli workforce have been called to military reserve duty and we have contingencies in place to cover impacted roles and responsibilities. The evolving conflict is likely to continue to impact economic activity in the region and could impact revenues from customers located in Israel. Our revenue derived from customers based in Israel was insignificant for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and is included within revenues from Europe in Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The situation in the region remains highly uncertain and there is the possibility that the conflict could worsen or expand which could, in turn, further impact economic conditions in Israel and in the broader region. At this time, it is difficult to assess the impact the war may have on our future results of operations. Any further escalation, expansion, or prolonged continuation of the ongoing conflict has the potential to impact our operations locally as well as to negatively impact the broader global economy and may have a material effect on our results of operations. Impact of the war in Ukraine During 2022, a geopolitical and armed conflict between Ukraine and Russia, which developed into an ongoing war, resulted in economic sanctions on Russia, Belarus, and certain territories in Ukraine. We provide services to customers in Ukraine and in jurisdictions that are or may be impacted by these economic sanctions. We have developed and implemented a robust transaction monitoring program designed to comply with imposed sanctions and to monitor the impact the conflict may have on our results of operations. During 2022, we ceased to provide services to customers in Russia and have limited our payment services to Belarus customers, while at the same time revenues in Ukraine have remained relatively stable. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, Ukraine and Belarus, combined, accounted for less than 10% of our revenue, of which Belarus accounted for less than 1% of our revenue. Further escalation of the conflict may have a material effect on our results of operations. Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions, including geopolitical and other global events, that impact consumer and business spending and behavior, such as, but not limited to, the interest rate environment, inflation, local political instability, global health crises, supply chain dislocations, regional and other conflicts, including the ongoing war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war, disruptions and instability in the banking sector, may impact our customers, providers, banking partners and ultimately the amount of volume processed on our platform which may affect our results of operations. In 2023, we saw a significant increase in the interest income revenue we earn on our customer funds as the U.S. Federal Reserve raised the benchmark interest rate by 525 basis points since 2022. While there remains a great deal of uncertainty around the future timing and magnitude of interest rate cuts, we do expect to see a negative impact from declining interest rates over the medium-term. 26 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Results of Operations The period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations have been prepared using the historical periods in our condensed consolidated financial statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related Notes included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three months ended March 31, Increase/ 2024 2023 (Decrease) (in thousands except percentages) Revenues $ 228,183 $ 192,014 19 % Transaction costs 33,966 27,081 25 % Other operating expenses 40,283 40,095 0 % Research and development expenses 32,051 29,280 9 % Sales and marketing expenses 49,890 47,826 4 % General and administrative expenses 24,209 26,681 (9) % Depreciation and amortization 9,408 6,039 56 % Total operating expenses 189,807 177,002 7 % Operating income 38,376 15,012 156 % Financial income (expense): Gain (loss) from change in fair value of Warrants 1,761 (252) ** % Other financial income, net 2,747 2,350 17 % Financial income, net 4,508 2,098 115 % Income before taxes on income 42,884 17,110 151 % Taxes on income 13,910 9,172 52 % Net income $ 28,974 $ 7,938 265 % **Not meaningful Revenues Revenues were $228.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $36.2 million, or 19%, compared to the prior-year period, driven mainly by an increase of $15.2 million in interest income earned on customer balances resulting from rising interest rates and an increase in customer balances held on our platform. The remaining increase was driven by a combination of continued adoption of our high value services, certain monetization initiatives, ongoing growth in high value regions, and growth in the number of customers on our platform. Transaction costs Transaction costs were $34.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $6.9 million, or 25%, compared to the prior-year period, which is broadly in line with the 21% increase in volume. Other operating expenses Other operating expenses were $40.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $0.2 million, or 0.5%, compared to the prior-year period, driven by an increase of $2.7 million in information technology expenses partially offset by a decrease of $1.8 million in employee compensation, benefits and other employee-related expenses primarily due to a decrease in employee headcount. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses were $32.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $2.8 million, or 9%, compared to the prior-year period, driven by an increase of $6.3 million in employee compensation, benefits and other employee-related expenses in line with an increase in employee headcount, an increase of $1.5 million in information technology expenses, partially offset by an increase of $4.8 million in employee compensation costs capitalized as internal use software in connection with ongoing investments in our platform infrastructure. 27 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Sales and marketing expenses Sales and marketing expenses were $49.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $2.1 million, or 4%, compared to the prior-year period, driven by an increase of $1.2 million in marketplace partner commissions, an increase of $2.6 million in spend on certain direct marketing spend and an increase of $1.3 million in third-party contractor and consulting expenses, offset by a decrease of $3.5 million in employee compensation, benefits and other employee-related expenses primarily due to a decrease in employee headcount. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses were $24.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $2.5 million, or 9%, compared to the prior-year period, driven by a decrease of $3.6 million in employee compensation, benefits and other employee-related expenses primarily due to a decrease in employee headcount, offset by an increase of $1.5 million in M&A related legal expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses were $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $3.4 million, or 56%, compared to the prior-year period, mainly driven by an increase in amortization of internal use of software. Financial income and expense, net Financial income, net was $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $2.4 million, or 115%, compared to the prior-year period, driven by a $1.8 million gain from the change in the fair value of warrants compared to a $0.3 million loss in the prior year period, an increase of $1.6 million in interest income on corporate cash balances, offset by a $1.0 million increase in loss on revaluation of foreign currency balances. Income tax Income tax expense was $13.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $4.7 million, or 52%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, driven by an increase of $7.6 million in our US federal and state income tax expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior-year period. This increase was driven by increased US taxable income, primarily due to interest income and capitalized research and development expenses, as well as an increase in uncertain tax positions. These increases were offset by a net increase in US deferred tax benefits of $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. 28 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following discussion of our liquidity and capital resources is based on the financial information derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our operating working capital, share repurchase and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development of our platform and the ongoing expansion needs of sales and marketing activities. We have in the past and may in the future enter into agreements with third parties with respect to investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Sources of Liquidity As of March 31, 2024, we had $587.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. On October 28, 2021, Payoneer Early Payments Inc. (PEPI), our wholly-owned second tier subsidiary and its subsidiary (the Borrower) entered into a multi-party Receivables Loan and Security Agreement (the Warehouse Facility) with, inter alia, affiliates of Viola Ventures. The objective was to provide access to external financing for our capital advance activity. See Note 11 and Note 20 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Effective July 1, 2023, the Warehouse Facility interest rate was updated to the sum of the Daily Simple SOFR and 0.26161% plus 9% annually. The Warehouse Facility has a revolving maturity of 36 months from the commencement date with a payback period of an additional 6 months after the revolving maturity date. The initial borrowing commitment is $25 million subject to increases at our request and the lenders discretion up to $100 million. Additional commitments will carry interest rates ranging from 7% to 7.75% in addition to the benchmark rate. In addition, pursuant to the Warehouse Facility, PEPI entered into an amendment on June 8, 2022, whereby creating a condition that the total interest rate shall not exceed 10.5% per annum for all outstanding balances. The Warehouse Facility is secured by eligible capital advance receivables at an initial rate of 80% of the total value of the underlying capital advance receivable outstanding. We are subject to financial covenants including minimum tangible equity, solvency and unrestricted cash requirements that are assessed based on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Current and Future Cash Requirements On May 7, 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $80 million of our common stock, including any applicable excise tax. On December 7, 2023, the Board authorized an amendment to the program to increase the authorized amount of repurchases to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250 million, including the amount that remained available as of December 7, 2023 to repurchase common stock under, but not any prior repurchases effected pursuant to, the previous authorization. The amended authorization expires December 31, 2025. During the period ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased 10,533,934 shares of our common stock for approximately $51.2 million, of which $1.7 million was not yet settled at period end. As of March 31, 2024, a total of approximately $189 million remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under the program. Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the following comparative periods. Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 39,510 $ 3,902 Net cash used in investing activities (114,147) (57,004) Net cash used in financing activities (521,113) (364,490) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,541) 515 Change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and customer funds $ (597,291) $ (417,077) 29 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $39.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $35.6 million compared to $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we had $29.0 million of net income, which includes non-cash expenses of $15.1 million related to stock-based compensation and $9.4 million related to depreciation and amortization. Net income was also adjusted for changes in current assets and liabilities, including net outflows of $12.5 million related to other payables and $6.6 million related to capital advances. These outflows were partially offset by inflows of $2.7 million related to other long-term liabilities and $2.3 million related to operating lease right-of-use assets. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had $7.9 million of net income, which includes non-cash expenses of $16.9 million related to stock-based compensation and $6.0 million related to depreciation and amortization. Net income was also adjusted for changes in current assets and liabilities, including net outflows of $10.1 million related to trade payables, $10.4 million related to other payables, $8.2 million related to other current assets, and $4.9 million related to capital advances. Other miscellaneous net inflows amounted to $6.7 million for the period. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $114.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $57.1 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $57.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This change was predominantly related to the net purchase of $98.6 million in investments offset by a decrease of $53.8 million in the balance of customer funds in transit at the current period end compared to the prior year period. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $521.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, an increase of $156.6 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $364.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Current period cash used in financing activities reflects the decline in customer balances since year end which was higher than the decline in the prior year period. Additionally, $51.0 million was used in the current period to finance our share repurchase program which had not begun in the prior year period. Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management uses a variety of financial and operating metrics to evaluate our business, analyze our performance, and make strategic decisions. We believe these metrics and non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as management. However, certain of these measures are not financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as substitutes for financial measures that have been calculated in accordance with GAAP. We primarily review the following key performance indicators and non-GAAP measures when assessing our performance: Volume Volume refers to the total dollar value of transactions successfully completed or enabled by our platform, not including orchestration transactions. For a customer that both receives and later sends payments, we count the volume only once. Volume serves as a key metric for overall business activity, as growing volume is one of the primary drivers for our revenue growth. Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Volume $ 18,455 $ 15,303 Note: as disclosed in the Companys Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2024, we have updated our methodology to adjust for previously disclosed limited exceptions where both received and sent payments were counted in volumes, such that we count volume only once for a customer that both receives and later sends payments. Volume grew 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, driven by a combination of continued growth in volumes from our largest digital commerce marketplaces, strong growth in B2B volumes, strong travel demand, and continued customer acquisition. 30 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Revenue We generate revenues mainly from transaction fees, which vary based on the type of service the customer utilizes. Transaction fee revenue principally consists of fees for withdrawals and usage. We also earn revenues in certain instances from volumes coming into the platform related to our B2B services and through our Checkout offering. We generate significant revenues from interest earned on customer funds held on our platform. In addition, we generate revenue from non-volume-based products and services which are based on a fixed fee. We believe that Revenue demonstrates our ability to monetize volume activity on our platform. Our revenues can be impacted by the following: (i) Mix in customer size, products, and services; (ii) Mix between domestic and cross-border transactions; (iii) Geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs; and (iv) Pricing and other market conditions including interest rates. Management closely monitors volume and revenue to ensure that we continue to grow funds and business activity that enters into the platform, expanding our overall scale and the reach of our business. Adjusted EBITDA In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe Adjusted EBITDA, as a non-GAAP measure, is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of Adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a metric used by management in assessing our operating performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measure as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for our non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measure and the reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Adjusted EBITDA Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net income $ 28,974 $ 7,938 Depreciation and amortization 9,408 6,039 Taxes on income 13,910 9,172 Other financial income, net (2,747) (2,350) EBITDA 49,545 20,799 Stock based compensation expenses(1) 15,077 16,927 M&A related expense(2) 2,375 774 Loss (gain) from change in fair value of Warrants(3) (1,761) 252 Adjusted EBITDA $ 65,236 $ 38,752 (1)Representsnon-cashcharges associated with stock-basedcompensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. (2) Amounts relate to M&A-related third-party fees, including related legal, consulting and other expenditures. (3) Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as gain or loss on the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The impact is removed from EBITDA as it represents market conditions that are not in our control. 31 Table of Contents PAYONEER GLOBAL INC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates For more information, see Payoneer Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Companys Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position, result of operations or cash flows is disclosed in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statement included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.