Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity, and Note 11 (Debt) to our audited consolidated financial statement included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), contain or may contain financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. If we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, including rising interest rates, which could increase the cost of refinancing debt and incurring new debt. Any refinancing or restructuring may also require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Climate change and environmental issues could adversely affect our operations, business, customers and partners. Concerns over the risks associated with climate change and environmental matters have been growing in recent years, and are at the center of rapidly evolving rule-making in the United States and abroad. Customers, investors, partners, and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. While we have not yet identified a material impact on our results and operations, we acknowledge that physical events, such as extreme weather and natural disasters, could disrupt our operations or those of our customers, partners, or third parties on which we rely, and may result in market volatility, shift in customer purchasing behaviors and travel patterns, and subsequently adversely impact our business. In addition, current and emerging ESG-related regulation, such as mandated disclosures or requirements to reduce carbon footprint, may result in increased compliance requirements, which may increase our costs. 29 Table of Contents Regulatory Risks Related to Payoneer Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including (but not limited to) those governing deposit taking, factoring, stored value, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, banking secrecy and payment services (including payment processing and settlement services). The legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory bodies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. Our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business. Governments may impose new regulatory requirements in a range of areas that, among other things, may: Prohibit, restrict, and/or impose taxes or fees on our services, including to or from certain countries or with certain individuals, and entities; Impose additional customer identification and due diligence requirements; Impose additional reporting or record keeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring; Limit the types of entities capable of providing money transmission services, or impose additional licensing or registration requirements; Impose minimum capital or other financial requirements; Limit or restrict the revenue that may be generated from transmitting money, processing payments, or factoring receivables, including interest earned on customer funds, transaction fees, and revenue generated from foreign exchange transactions; Require enhanced disclosures to customers; Limit the number or principal amount of money transmission transactions that may be sent to or from a jurisdiction, whether by an individual or in the aggregate; and Restrict or limit the ability of firms to process transactions using a centralized record keeping system located outside of the jurisdiction in which the customer is located, requiring that data associated be localized in the same jurisdiction as the customer. Any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws and regulations), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. The foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, expose us to significant liability, impose significant costs, require us to expend substantial resources, increase the cost and complexity of compliance, damage our brand and business, make our products and services less attractive, result in the loss of customers, limit our ability to grow the business, adversely affect our results of operations, and harm our reputation. The complexity of existing U.S. federal and state and foreign regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving U.S. and international regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. We have obtained licenses to operate in multiple jurisdictions around the world. We hold licenses in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia, and Hong Kong. From time to time, we interact with our regulators concerning the interpretation or application of certain regulatory requirements. In addition, we are obligated to self-report when we exceed the parameters or constraints of our licenses. In the past, these matters have not had a material adverse effect on our business, but no assurance can be given that future disagreements or disputes will not have a material adverse effect on our business. In the United States, we provide our services through Payoneer Inc. Payoneer Inc. is licensed as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. As a licensed money transmitter, 30 Table of Contents Payoneer Inc. is subject to restrictions with respect to its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. Accordingly, if Payoneer Inc. violates these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose substantial costs. We provide our services to customers in the European Economic Area through our Irish subsidiary, Payoneer Europe Limited (Payoneer Europe). Payoneer Europe is licensed by the Central Bank of Ireland as an e-money institution and has completed the passport notification processes in all European Economic Area countries. We have received permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom under its temporary permissions regime for Payoneer Europe to provide services to United Kingdom customers until the end of 2023, and have meanwhile filed an application with and have been granted a license by the FCA for authorization as an e-money institution for the purpose of serving United Kingdom customers prior to the end of said permission. Payoneer Europe is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on Irish e-money institutions. The regulators in any country in which we provide services could seek to persuade the regulators that have granted us a license to require us to operate through a local branch. In addition, European Union laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the European Union. Such actions can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. In Japan, Payoneer Japan Ltd. (Payoneer Japan) is licensed as a Registered Fund Transfer Service Provider. Accordingly, Payoneer Japan is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on Japanese fund transfer service providers. In Australia, Payoneer Australia Pty. Ltd. (Payoneer Australia) is licensed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as a provider of a non-cash payment products. Accordingly, Payoneer Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian providers of non-cash payment products. In Hong Kong, Payoneer Hong Kong Limited (Payoneer Hong Kong) is licensed as a Money Service Operator. Accordingly, Payoneer Hong Kong is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Hong Kong money service operators. In India, we are registered as an Online Payment Gateway Service Provider, approved by the Reserve Bank of India, for the purpose of facilitating certain import and export payments for Indian residents. We are required to periodically renew our registration as an Online Payment Gateway Service Provider. In Singapore, we have received in-principle approval as a Major Payment Institution license holder from the Monetary Authority of Singapore. In many of the markets in which we do business, we serve our customers through a company licensed in a different jurisdiction. It is unclear and uncertain whether our services are subject only to the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or if our services are subject to the law of the jurisdiction in which our customer is based. We have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in countries other than ones in which we have already obtained a license. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such licenses in the future, and the failure to obtain such licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we can obtain such licenses, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, or corporate governance requirements. In many other countries it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, we may rely on local banks or licensed payment service providers to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to our customers in those jurisdictions. Such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay in the provision or development of our services in a given market, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing any services in a given market. 31 Table of Contents As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and services and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. Our results of operations may be adversely affected as a result of any decrease in revenue from customers operating in China as a result of regulatory changes or occurrences under other risk factors discussed herein. As a significant portion of our revenue is generated from China, any negative impact to our ability to serve customers based in China could exacerbate the other risks set forth herein. Our services to customers from Greater China generated 31% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. This geographic concentration in our business creates exposure to local economies and politics, and regional downturns. We are vulnerable to economic downturns or changing political landscapes in China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We currently support customers from China through our partnerships with banks and licensed payment providers that are regulated by the Peoples Republic of China and are licensed by the Peoples Bank of China (the PBOC) and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. As a result, we do not currently hold a license to operate in China. In the future, the PBOC and China legislation may require foreign companies that provide services to Chinese businesses to have a local license, and should that be required a failure by us to secure such a license could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we can obtain such license, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such license, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, or corporate governance requirements. Any change in regulation or legal requirements in China that restricts the services we can provide to customers operating in China may lead to a decrease in revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, economic and trade sanctions regulations and similar laws, could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to various anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, economic and trade sanctions regulations and similar laws, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. U.S. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which requires us to continually monitor and update our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. The European Commission, for example, from time to time introduces revisions to the Anti-Money Laundering Directives, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. Regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. We rely on technical programs and third-party providers to monitor our compliance with the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Such technical programs require us to timely update the programs to account for any relevant changes in laws or regulations. If we fail to update the technical programs correctly or in a timely manner, the technical programs may fail to flag conduct that violates existing laws or regulations, which may subject us to government investigation, fines or reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We routinely report to the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) on payments we have rejected or blocked pursuant to OFAC sanctions regulations and on any possible violations of those regulations. Any transactions we process in violation of OFAC sanctions regulations could result in claims or actions against us including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business. Violation of OFAC sanctions regulations that OFAC determines to be egregious can result in significant statutory penalties in addition to harm to our reputation. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, disclosures related to potential violations of OFAC sanctions regulations. For example, in February 2016, we submitted a disclosure to OFAC about certain payments to the Crimea region of 32 Table of Contents Ukraine and other OFAC target countries, and during 2021 we entered into a settlement with OFAC relating to the foregoing matter which included a monetary settlement. We may operate our business in foreign countries where companies often engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States and other regulations applicable to us. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures, including anti-bribery provisions enforced by the Department of Justice. These laws prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States persons or companies for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented policies, procedures, systems, and controls designed to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions under such laws and regulations; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants and agents, including those that may be based in or from countries where practices that violate U.S. or other laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies, for which we may be ultimately responsible. Our business is subject to complex and evolving regulations and oversight, in relation to privacy and data protection. Failure to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations could subject us to fines and reputational harm. As part of our business, we collect PII, also referred to as personal data or personal information, and other potentially sensitive and/or regulated data from our employees, customers and the vendors we work with. Laws and regulations in the United States, Europe and around the world restrict how personal information is collected, processed, stored, transferred, used and disclosed, as well as set standards for its security, implement notice requirements regarding privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights regarding the use, disclosure and sale of their protected personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Economic Area (EEA) member states and the United Kingdom, have laws and regulations which are more restrictive in certain respects than those in the United States. For example, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which came into force on May 25, 2018, implemented stringent operational requirements for the use of personal data. In addition, the European e-Privacy Directive requires EEA member states to regulate marketing by electronic means and the use of web cookies and other tracking technology. Each EEA member state has transposed the requirements of these directives into its own national data privacy regime, and therefore the laws may differ between jurisdictions. This directive is under reform and is expected to be replaced in the future by a regulation which should provide consistent requirements across the EU. The GDPR (and GDPR as it forms part of retained European law (as defined in the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018) (UK GDPR)), introduced more stringent requirements (which will continue to be interpreted through guidance and decisions over the coming years) and requirements on organizations to erase or rectify an individuals information upon request, implement mandatory data breach notifications and applies obligations on service providers and strict protections on how data may be transferred outside of the EEA. Recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EEA to the United States. On July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the EU struck down a permitted personal data transfer mechanism between the EEA and the United States, invalidating the use of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework and further casting doubt on the use of another main transfer mechanism, the EU standard contractual clauses. Subsequently, on June 4, 2021, the European Commission published new standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data from EEA member states, which, in order to address the above ruling, includes the requirement to conduct data transfer impact assessments to determine whether law and practice in a receiving jurisdiction would prevent the recipient from meeting its obligations under the new standard contractual clauses, in addition to the requirement to conduct periodic reviews to identify change of laws and practices in the receiving jurisdiction. In October 2022, an Executive Order was signed on Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities directing the steps that the United States will take to implement its commitments under the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework announced by the EU and the United States in March 2022. In December 2022, the European Commission launched the process to adopt an adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, which will foster trans-Atlantic data flows and address the concerns raised by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its July 16, 2020 decision which invalidate the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. In the United States, both the federal and various state governments have adopted or are considering, laws, guidelines or rules for the collection, distribution, use and storage of information collected from or about consumers or their devices. For example, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which became enforceable by the California Attorney General on July 1, 2020 and requires disclosures to California consumers, imposes new rules for collecting or using information about minors, and affords consumers new abilities to opt out of certain disclosures of personal information. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The effects of the CCPA, its implementing regulations, and uncertainties about the scope and applicability of exemptions that may apply to our business, are potentially significant and may require us to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Additionally, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which amended and replaced the 33 Table of Contents CCPA as of January 1, 2023, is expected to strengthen privacy laws in California and create a new privacy regulatory agency in the State with additional enforcement powers. In addition, Virginia adopted a new state data privacy law that became effective on January 1, 2023, Colorado and Connecticut adopted new state privacy laws which will become effective on July 1, 2023, and Utah adopted its own state privacy law which will become effective on December 31, 2023, all adding rights to consumers and compliance obligations for businesses. Nevada also amended its privacy law effective as of October 2021, adding consumer rights in relation to the sale of personal data. In addition, the Personal Information Protection Law of the Peoples Republic of China (PIPL) became effective November 1, 2021. The PIPL regulates data processing in China, and the protection of the privacy and personal information of Chinese citizens. The PIPL applies to Chinese organizations, as well as foreign organizations engaging with customers from China, and requires such organizations to take necessary measures, as applicable, in order to ensure compliance. As these and other laws and regulations may continue to evolve and be enacted, or new interpretation of existing laws and regulations apply, it may require us to modify our data processing practices, agreements and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply with this ever-evolving regulatory landscape. Restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of PII or additional requirements and liability for security and data integrity could require us to modify our solutions and features, possibly in a material manner, could limit our ability to develop new services and features and could subject us to increased compliance obligations and regulatory scrutiny. We take a variety of technical and organizational security measures and other measures to protect the data we process, including data pertaining to our customers, employees and business partners. Despite measures we put in place, we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to such data. Non-compliance with data protection and privacy requirements may result in regulatory fines (which for certain breaches of the GDPR are up to the greater of 20 million Euros or 4% of total global annual turnover), regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease/change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. General Risks Related to Payoneer From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are involved in various litigation matters from time to time. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in these litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, we may be forced to pay damages or fines, enter into consent decrees or change our business practices, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management and key personnel, including (but not limited to), technical, compliance and sales employees, particularly in light of the intensified and expanded competition for talent, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our customers demands. Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions create certain risks and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures are part of our growth strategy. We evaluate and expect in the future to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of, and partnerships or joint ventures with, complementary businesses, services or technologies. We 34 Table of Contents may not be successful in identifying acquisition, partnership and joint venture targets. In addition, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire or with which we form a partnership or joint venture. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult or expensive to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, acquisitions outside of the United States often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with non-U.S. regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement and protection of intellectual property in some non-U.S. countries; difficulty entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions. These risks may arise for a number of reasons, including: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. We cannot ensure that any acquisition, partnership or joint venture we make will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect our business. As a public company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls, and must maintain internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The process of designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls is a continuous effort that require us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants, implement a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing whether such controls are functioning as documented, and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain appropriate disclose controls or internal