Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity, and Note 11 (Debt) to our audited consolidated financial 27 Table of Contents statement included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), contain or may contain financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. If we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, including interest rates, which could increase the cost of refinancing debt and incurring new debt. Any refinancing or restructuring may also require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Climate change and environmental issues could materially adversely affect our operations, business, customers and partners. Concerns over the risks associated with climate change and environmental matters have been growing in recent years, and are at the center of rapidly evolving rule-making in the United States and abroad. Customers, investors, partners, and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. While, to date, we have not identified a material impact on our results and operations, we acknowledge that physical events, such as extreme weather and natural disasters, could disrupt our operations or those of our customers, partners, or third parties on which we rely, and may result in market volatility, shift in customer purchasing behaviors and travel patterns, and materially adversely impact our business. In addition, current and emerging ESG-related regulations, such as mandated disclosures or requirements to reduce carbon footprint, may result in increased compliance requirements, which may increase our costs. Regulatory Risks Related to Payoneer Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including (but not limited to) those governing cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, banking secrecy, deposit taking, factoring, stored value and payment services (including payment processing and settlement services). The legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory bodies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. Our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business. Governments and regulators may impose new regulatory requirements in a range of areas that, among other things, may: Prohibit, restrict, and/or impose taxes or fees on our services, including to or from certain countries or with certain individuals, and entities; Impose additional customer identification and due diligence requirements; Impose additional reporting or record keeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring; Limit the types of entities capable of providing money transmission services, or impose additional licensing or registration requirements; Impose minimum capital or other financial requirements; Limit or restrict the revenue that may be generated from transmitting money, processing payments, or factoring receivables, including interest earned on customer funds, transaction fees, and revenue generated from foreign exchange transactions; Require enhanced disclosures to customers; Limit the number or principal amount of money transmission transactions that may be sent to or from a jurisdiction, whether by an individual or in the aggregate; and Restrict or limit the ability of firms to process transactions using a centralized record keeping system located outside of the jurisdiction in which the customer is located, requiring that data associated be localized in the same jurisdiction as the customer. 28 Table of Contents Any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws and regulations), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. The foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, expose us to significant liability, impose significant costs, require us to expend substantial resources, increase the cost and complexity of compliance, damage our brand and business, make our products and services less attractive, result in the loss of customers, limit our ability to grow the business, materially adversely affect our results of operations, and harm our reputation. The complexity of existing U.S. federal and state and foreign regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving U.S. and international regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. We have obtained licenses to operate in multiple jurisdictions around the world. We hold licenses in the United States, Europe, the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Hong Kong, and Singapore. From time to time, we interact with our regulators concerning the interpretation or application of certain regulatory requirements. In addition, we are obligated to self-report when we exceed the parameters or constraints of our licenses. In the past, these matters have not had a material adverse effect on our business, but no assurance can be given that future disagreements or disputes will not have a material adverse effect on our business. In the United States, we provide our services through Payoneer Inc. Payoneer Inc. is licensed as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. As a licensed money transmitter, Payoneer Inc. is subject to restrictions with respect to its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. Accordingly, if Payoneer Inc. violates these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose substantial costs. We provide our services to customers in the European Economic Area through our Irish subsidiary, Payoneer Europe Limited (Payoneer Europe). Payoneer Europe is licensed by the Central Bank of Ireland as an Electronic Money Institution and has completed the passport notification processes in all European Economic Area countries. Payoneer Europe is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on Irish e-money institutions. The regulators in any country in which we provide services could seek to persuade the regulators that have granted us a license to require us to operate through a local branch. In addition, European Union laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the European Union. Such actions can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. In the United Kingdom, Payoneer Payment Services (UK) Ltd. (Payoneer United Kingdom) is licensed by the Financial Conduct Authority as an Electronic Money Institution. In Japan, Payoneer Japan Ltd. (Payoneer Japan) is licensed as a Registered Fund Transfer Service Provider. In Australia, Payoneer Australia Pty. Ltd. (Payoneer Australia) is licensed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as a provider of a non-cash payment products. In Hong Kong, Payoneer Hong Kong Limited (Payoneer Hong Kong) is licensed as a Money Service Operator. In Singapore, Payoneer Singapore Pte Ltd (Payoneer Singapore) is licensed as a Major Payment Institution License by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Accordingly, these entities are subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if any of the entities violate the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed by their respective regulators. In India, we are registered as an Online Payment Gateway Service Provider, approved by the Reserve Bank of India, for the purpose of facilitating certain import and export payments for Indian residents. In many of the markets in which we do business, we serve our customers through a company licensed in a different jurisdiction. It is unclear and uncertain whether our services are subject to regulatory oversight only in the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or if our services are subject to the laws of the jurisdiction in which our customer is based. We have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in countries other than ones in which we have already obtained a license. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such licenses in the future, and the failure to obtain such licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we can obtain such licenses, there are substantial costs and 29 Table of Contents potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements. In many countries it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, we may rely on local banks or licensed payment service providers to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. Local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to our customers in those jurisdictions. Such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay in the provision or development of our services in a given market, or could require significant and costly operational changes, or prevent us from providing any services in a given market. As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and services and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. As a significant portion of our revenue is generated from China, any negative impact to our ability to serve customers based in China could materially adversely affect our results and exacerbate the other risks set forth herein. Our services to customers from Greater China generated approximately 35% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. This geographic concentration in our business creates exposure to local economic and political conditions. We are vulnerable to economic downturns or changing political landscapes in China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Taiwan. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We currently support customers based in China through our partnerships with banks and licensed payment providers that are regulated by the Peoples Republic of China and are licensed by the Peoples Bank of China (the PBOC) and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We do not currently hold a license to operate in China, but understand that recent PBOC and Chinese legislation will require foreign companies that provide certain services to Chinese customers to have a local license, and a failure by us to have acquired such a license by the time the PBOC may require Payoneer to have such a license could have a material adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, we have been working to obtain a local license through an acquisition of a local licensed entity. The closing of the acquisition is subject to governmental registrations and approvals and to customary closing conditions. Even if we can obtain such license, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such license, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, or corporate governance requirements. Any change in regulation or legal requirements in China that restricts the services we can provide to customers operating in China may lead to a decrease in revenue and materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, economic and trade sanctions regulations and similar laws, could subject us to penalties and other material adverse consequences. We are subject to various anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, economic and trade sanctions regulations and similar laws, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to penalties and other material adverse consequences. U.S. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which requires us to continually monitor and update our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. The European Commission, for example, from time to time introduces revisions to the Anti-Money Laundering Directives, which make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. Regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. We rely on technical programs and third-party providers to monitor our compliance with the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Such technical programs require us to timely update the programs to account for any relevant changes in laws or regulations. If we fail to update the technical programs correctly or in a timely manner, the technical programs may fail to flag conduct that 30 Table of Contents violates existing laws or regulations, which may subject us to government investigation, fines or reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We routinely report to the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) on payments we have rejected or blocked pursuant to OFAC sanctions regulations and on any possible violations of those regulations. Any transactions we process in violation of OFAC sanctions regulations could result in claims or actions against us including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise materially harm our business. Violation of OFAC sanctions regulations that OFAC determines to be egregious can result in significant statutory penalties in addition to harm to our reputation. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, disclosures related to potential violations of OFAC sanctions regulations. For example, in February 2016, we submitted a disclosure to OFAC about certain payments to the Crimea region of Ukraine and other OFAC target countries, and have subsequently entered into settlements relating to the foregoing matter which included monetary settlements. We may provide services to customers in foreign countries where companies often engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States and other regulations applicable to us. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures, including anti-bribery provisions enforced by the Department of Justice. These laws prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States persons or companies for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented policies, procedures, systems, and controls designed to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions under such laws and regulations; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants and agents, including those that may be based in or from countries where practices that violate U.S. or other laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies, for which we may be ultimately responsible. Our business is subject to complex and evolving regulations and oversight, in relation to privacy and data protection. Failure to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations could subject us to fines and reputational harm and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our business, we process PII, also referred to under certain regulations as personal data or personal information, and other potentially sensitive and/or regulated data from our employees, customers, the vendors we work with and others. Laws and regulations in the United States, Europe and around the world restrict how personal information is collected, processed, stored, transferred, used and disclosed, as well as set standards for its security, implement notice requirements regarding privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights regarding the use, disclosure and sale of their protected personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Economic Area (EEA) member states and the United Kingdom, have laws and regulations which are more restrictive in certain respects than those in the United States. For example, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which came into force on May 25, 2018, implemented stringent operational requirements for the processing of personal data. In addition, the European e-Privacy Directive requires EEA member states to regulate marketing by electronic means and the use of web cookies and other tracking technology. Each EEA member state has transposed the requirements of these directives into its own national data privacy regime, and therefore the laws may differ between jurisdictions. This directive is under reform and is expected to be replaced in the future by a regulation which should provide consistent requirements across the EU. The GDPR (and GDPR as it forms part of retained European law (as defined in the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018) (UK GDPR)), introduced more stringent requirements (which are and will continue to be interpreted through guidance and decisions over the coming years) on organizations to erase or rectify an individuals information upon request, implement mandatory data breach notifications and applies obligations on service providers and strict protections on how data may be transferred outside of the EEA. Legal developments in Europe in recent years have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EEA to the United States, which ultimately led to the European Commissions July 2023 adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, which was designed to address concerns previously raised by the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to trans-Atlantic data flows between the EEA and the United States, however such decision is expected to be challenged in the future and the outcome of such potential challenges may again impact such data flows. In the United States, both the federal and various state governments have adopted or are considering, laws, guidelines or rules for the collection, distribution, use and storage of information collected from or about consumers or their devices, including the State of California which enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which was amended and replaced by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) as of January 1, 2023 and which requires disclosures to California consumers, imposes new rules for collecting 31 Table of Contents or using information about minors, and affords consumers new abilities to opt out of certain disclosures of personal information. The CPRA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation in the future. In addition, the Personal Information Protection Law of the Peoples Republic of China (PIPL) became effective November 1, 2021. The PIPL regulates data processing in China, and the protection of the privacy and personal information of Chinese citizens. The PIPL applies to Chinese organizations, as well as foreign organizations engaging with customers from China, and requires such organizations to take necessary measures, as applicable, in order to ensure compliance. As these and other laws and regulations may continue to evolve and be enacted, or new interpretation of existing laws and regulations apply, it may require us to modify our data processing practices, agreements and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply with this ever-evolving regulatory landscape. Restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of PII or additional requirements and liability for security and data integrity could require us to modify our solutions and features, possibly in a material manner, could limit our ability to develop new services and features and could subject us to increased compliance obligations and regulatory scrutiny. We take a variety of technical and organizational security measures and other measures to protect the data we process, including data pertaining to our customers, employees and business partners. Despite measures we put in place, we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to such data. Non-compliance with data protection and privacy requirements may result in regulatory fines (which for certain breaches of the GDPR are up to the greater of 20 million Euros or 4% of total global annual turnover), regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease/change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. General Risks Related to Payoneer We may be subject to various legal proceedings which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are involved in various litigation matters from time to time. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in these litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, we may be forced to pay damages or fines, enter into consent decrees or change our business practices, any of which could be material and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could materially harm our overall business and results of operations. We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management and key personnel, including (but not limited to), technical, compliance and sales employees, particularly in light of the intensified and expanded competition for talent, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our customers demands. Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions create certain risks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We regularly evaluate potential strategic transactions such as acquisitions, investments, joint ventures, partnerships, dispositions, and strategic alternatives as part of our strategy. We may not be successful in identifying targets or assessing opportunities and we may incur significant costs, and managements attention may be diverted, as we consider such transactions. Additional risks may arise from a number of reasons, including: we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance a transaction and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could 32 Table of Contents increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete a transaction; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with a transaction; and we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience. Further, in the event that we consummate a transaction, we may not realize the anticipated benefits, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the process of integrating acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, transactions outside of the United States often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with non-U.S. regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement and protection of intellectual property in some non-U.S. countries; difficulty entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions. We cannot ensure that any acquisition, investment, partnership, joint venture, disposition, or other strategic transaction we make will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may materially adversely affect our business. As a public company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls, and must maintain internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The process of designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants, implement a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, take steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing whether such controls are functioning as documented, and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain appropriate disclose controls or internal