Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the " 2017 Form 10-K"), as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded (if applicable) by some of the information in the risk factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-Q, as well as in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, references to we, our, us, the Company and PayPal refer to PayPal Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Environment We are a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. Our vision is to democratize financial services, as we believe that managing and moving money is a right for all people, not just the affluent. Our goal is to increase our relevance for consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and using any device. We also facilitate person-to-person payments through our PayPal, Venmo and Xoom products. Our combined payment solutions, including our PayPal, PayPal Credit, Braintree, Venmo, and Xoom products, compose our proprietary Payments Platform. We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. That focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy and consumer protection. Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently, and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. Non-compliance with laws and regulations, increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, and the enactment of new laws and regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United Kingdom ("U.K.") held a referendum in June 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the European Union ("EU") (Brexit). In March 2017, the U.K. government gave formal notice of its intention to leave the EU and started the process of negotiating the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the EU. Brexit could adversely affect U.K., regional (including European) and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British Pound and Euro. We have foreign exchange exposure management programs designed to help reduce the impact from foreign currency rate movements. For both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , net revenues generated from our U.K. operations constituted 11% of total net revenues. During each of these periods, net revenues generated from the EU (excluding the U.K.) constituted less than 20% of total net revenues. For additional information on how Brexit could affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K, as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q. Information security risks for global payments and technology companies have significantly increased in recent years. Although we are not aware of any material impacts relating to cyberattacks or other information security breaches on our Payments Platform, we are not immune to these risks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. 35 Overview of Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of our condensed consolidated GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 : Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages and per share data) Net revenues $ 3,685 $ 2,975 24 % Operating expenses 3,151 2,544 24 % Operating income $ 534 $ 431 24 % Operating margin 14 % 14 % ** Income tax expense $ 37 $ 54 (31 )% Effective tax rate 7 % 12 % ** Net income $ 511 $ 384 33 % Net income per diluted share $ 0.42 $ 0.32 33 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ (349 ) $ 751 (146 )% All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. ** Not meaningful Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Net revenues increased $710 million , or 24% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year driven primarily by growth in TPV (as defined below under "Net revenues") of 32% compared to the same period of the prior year. Net revenues from our recent acquisition of Swift contributed one percentage point to the growth rate. Total operating expenses increased $607 million , or 24% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to increase s in transaction expense, restructuring and other, general and administrative, sales and marketing and product development expenses. Operating expenses related to our recent acquisitions of TIO and Swift collectively contributed three percentage points to the growth rate in total operating expenses. In March 2018, our management decided to wind down TIO's operations. Operating income increased $103 million , or 24% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due to the increase in net revenues and positive impact of held for sale accounting for our U.S. consumer credit portfolio offset by the growth in operating expenses and impact of recent acquisitions. Our operating margin was 14% in both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . Operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by growth in transaction expense which increased 29% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net revenues, which increased 24% in the same period. These impacts were offset by operating efficiencies in our business. Net income increased by $127 million , or 33% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the increase in operating income of $103 million and a decrease in income tax expense of $17 million , which was driven by discrete tax benefits related to stock-based compensation partially offset by tax expense associated with the increase in operating income. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , our diluted net income per share was $0.42 , a $0.10 increase compared to the same period of the prior year. 36 Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following table provides a summary of our condensed consolidated non-GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 : Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages and per share data) Non-GAAP operating income $ 829 $ 643 29 % Non-GAAP operating margin 22 % 22 % ** Non-GAAP income tax expense $ 151 $ 116 30 % Non-GAAP net income $ 692 $ 534 30 % Non-GAAP net income per diluted share $ 0.57 $ 0.44 29 % Free cash flow $ (527 ) $ 603 (187 )% All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest millions, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. ** Not meaningful Non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share and free cash flow are not financial measures prepared in accordance with the U.S. GAAP. For information on how we compute these non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, please refer to Non-GAAP Financial Information below. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, as well as other currencies in which we conduct our international operations, impacts the translation of our net revenues and expenses generated in these foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , we generated approximately 45% and 46% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States ("U.S."), respectively. Other than the U.S., the U.K. was the only country where we generated more than 10% of total net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . During each of these periods, net revenues generated from the EU (excluding the U.K.) constituted less than 20% of total net revenues. Because we have generated substantial net revenues internationally in recent periods, including during the periods presented, we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K, as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded (if applicable) below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency exchange rates applied to current period transactional currency amounts. While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect our reported results, we have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program whereby we designate certain foreign currency exchange contracts as cash flow hedges designed to reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency exchange rate movements. Gains and losses from these foreign currency exchange contracts are recognized as a component of transaction revenues in the same period the forecasted transactions impact earnings. 37 In the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 , year-over-year foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had the following impact on our reported results: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 (In millions) Favorable impact to net revenues (exclusive of hedging impact) $ 141 Hedging impact (50 ) Favorable impact to net revenues 91 Unfavorable impact to operating expense (59 ) Net impact to operating income $ 32 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 (In millions) Unfavorable impact to net revenues (exclusive of hedging impact) $ (56 ) Hedging impact 40 Unfavorable impact to net revenues (16 ) Favorable impact to operating expense 15 Net impact to operating income $ (1 ) While we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to help reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency rate movements, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the total effects of this exposure. Additionally, in connection with our services in multiple currencies, we generally set our foreign currency exchange rates daily, and may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign currency exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the times that we set our foreign currency exchange rates. Given that we also have foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, we have an additional foreign currency exchange exposure management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. These foreign currency exchange contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. Financial Results Net Revenues Due to the diversification of PayPals business through strategic partnerships, new products and acquisitions, we have updated our definitions of "active accounts" and "total payment volume (TPV)" as described below. Active Accounts : An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction through our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. The definition of active accounts has been expanded to include payments made or outstanding balances held on our co-branded credit card program. The definition has also been expanded to include accounts from our platform access partners. A platform access partner is a third party whose customers are provided access to PayPals Payments Platform through such third partys login credentials. This expanded definition captures uniquely identifiable accounts for which PayPal receives economic benefits for completed transactions processed on behalf of customers who have established a relationship with PayPal. Total Payment Volume : The value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. The definition of TPV has been expanded to include PayPals diversification into new partner payment solutions such as certain tokenized transactions and contextual commerce which expand our opportunities for growth. 38 Table of Contents The revised definition will also capture TPV from our merchant debit card program. Due to their inclusion in TPV, revenues from these transactions were reclassified from other value added services to transaction revenues with no change to total net revenues. These revisions also impacted previously reported results for other non-financial key performance metrics, including number of payment transactions and payment transactions per active account. Prior period metrics have been revised in this filing to conform to the new definitions. We earn revenue from the following types of transactions: Transaction revenues : Net transaction fees charged to consumers and merchants on a transaction basis primarily based on the volume of activity, or total payments volume (TPV), processed through our Payments Platform. Growth in TPV is directly impacted by the number of payment transactions that we enable on our Payments Platform. Payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. We earn additional fees on transactions settled in foreign currencies when we enable cross-border transactions (i.e., transactions where the merchant or consumer are in different countries). Other value added services : Net revenues derived principally from interest and fees earned on our loans and interest receivable, net and held for sale portfolio, subscription fees, gateway fees, gains on sale of participation interests in certain consumer loans receivable and working capital loans and advances, revenue share we earn through partnerships, interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances, and fees earned through other services that we provide to consumers and merchants. Net Revenues Analysis The components of our net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (1) (In millions, except percentages) Transaction revenues $ 3,197 $ 2,624 22 % Other value-added services 488 351 39 % Net revenues $ 3,685 $ 2,975 24 % (1) Amounts in the prior period were reclassified to conform to current period presentation. Transaction revenues grew by $573 million , or 22% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the growth in TPV, mainly from our PayPal and Braintree products. The following table provides a summary of our active accounts, number of payment transactions, TPV and related metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (1) (In millions, except percentages) Active accounts (2) 237 205 15 % Number of payment transactions (3) 2,214 1,771 25 % Payment transactions per active account (4) 34.7 32.2 8 % Total TPV (5) $ 132,364 $ 100,639 32 % Percent of cross-border TPV 21 % 21 % ** All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. (1) Prior period amounts were revised to reflect updated definitions of our metrics. (2) Reflects active accounts as of the end of the applicable period. An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction through our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. (3) Number of payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. (4) Number of payment transactions per active account reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12 month period, divided by active accounts at the end of the period. (5) TPV is the value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. ** Not meaningful 39 Table of Contents Transaction revenues grew more slowly than both TPV and number of payment transactions for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year due to a higher proportion of person-to-person ("P2P") transactions (primarily from our PayPal and Venmo products) from which we earn lower rates, foreign exchange hedging losses, and a higher portion of TPV generated by large merchants who generally pay lower rates with higher transaction volumes. Changes in prices charged to our customers did not significantly impact transaction revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net revenues from other value added services increased $137 million , or 39% , compared to the same period in the prior year due primarily to interest and fee income earned on our PayPal Credit loans receivable portfolio which was also positively impacted by held for sale accounting for our U.S. consumer credit portfolio. Swift revenues contributed approximately eight percentage points to the growth rate. The total consumer and merchant loans and interest receivable balance, including consumer loans and receivables, held for sale, as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 was $8.3 billion and $5.7 billion , respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 46%. In November 2017, we reached an agreement to sell our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank, which we believe will enable us, at closing, to free up balance sheet capacity and cash flow for other uses, and mitigate balance sheet risk. Historically, this portfolio was reported as outstanding principal balances, net of any participation interest sold and pro-rata allowances including, unamortized deferred origination costs and estimated collectible interest and fees. Upon approval of the decision to sell these receivables from our Board of Directors, the portfolio was reclassified as held for sale, and recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. This transaction will be accounted for as a sale, and the receivables will no longer be reported in our consolidated financial statements, upon close of the transaction. Following the closing of this transaction, which is expected to occur in the third quarter of 2018, Synchrony Bank will become the exclusive issuer of the PayPal Credit online consumer financing program in the U.S., and we will no longer hold an ownership interest in the receivables generated through the program (other than charged off receivables). In addition, we will earn a profit share on the portfolio of consumer receivables owned by Synchrony Bank, which will be recorded in net revenues from other value added services. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses and related metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages) Transaction expense $ 1,275 $ 987 29 % Transaction and loan losses 305 300 2 % Customer support and operations 351 317 11 % Sales and marketing 285 238 20 % Product development 258 214 21 % General and administrative 339 265 28 % Depreciation and amortization 185 183 1 % Restructuring and other charges 153 40 283 % Total operating expenses $ 3,151 $ 2,544 24 % Transaction expense rate (1) 0.96 % 0.98 % ** Transaction and loan loss rate (2) 0.23 % 0.30 % ** (1) Transaction expense rate is calculated by dividing transaction expense by TPV. Prior year amount was revised to reflect updated TPV definition, as discussed above. ( 2) Transaction and loan loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction and loan losses by TPV. Prior year amount was revised to reflect updated TPV definition, as discussed above. ** Not meaningful 40 Table of Contents Transaction Expense Transaction expense increased by $288 million , or 29% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily due to the increase in TPV of 32% . The decrease in our transaction expense rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and a higher volume of P2P transactions. Our transaction expense rate is impacted by changes in regional and funding mix, and assessments charged by payments processors and other financial institutions when we draw funds from a customers credit or debit card, bank account or other funding sources. The cost of funding a transaction with a credit or debit card is generally higher than the cost of funding a transaction from a bank or through internal sources such as a PayPal account balance or PayPal Credit. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , approximately 2% of TPV was funded with PayPal Credit. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , approximately 44% and 42% of TPV was generated outside of the U.S., respectively. As we expand the availability and presentation of alternative funding sources to our customers, our funding mix may change, which could increase or decrease our transaction expense rate. Transaction and Loan Losses The components of our transaction and loan losses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages) Transaction losses $ 243 $ 171 42 % Loan losses 62 129 (52 )% Transaction and loan losses $ 305 $ 300 2 % Transaction losses increased by $72 million , or 42% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily due to the increase in TPV. Transaction losses as a percentage of TPV increased by one basis point in the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the same period of the prior year. Loan losses decreased by $67 million , or 52% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the designation of our U.S. consumer credit portfolio as held for sale, partially offset by an increase in our PayPal Working Capital loans and Swift business loans receivable balance. The total consumer loans and interest receivable balance as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 was $403 million and $5.1 billion , respectively, reflecting a year-over-year decrease of 92% . The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our pool of consumer loans and interest receivable balance: March 31, 2018 2017 Percent of consumer loans and interest receivables current (1) 95.3 % 91.3 % Percent of consumer loans and interest receivables > 90 days outstanding (1)(2) 1.5 % 3.9 % Net charge off rate (1)(3) 2.3 % 6.9 % (1) Amounts as of March 31, 2018 represent loans and interest receivables due from consumer accounts not classified as held for sale. Amounts as of March 31, 2017 represent total consumer loans and interest receivables including U.S. consumer receivables because they were not classified as held for sale as of that date. (2) Represents percentage of balances which are 90 days past the billing date to the consumer. (3) Net charge off rate is the annual ratio of net credit losses on consumer loans receivables as a percentage of the average daily amount of consumer loans and interest receivables balance during the period. We offer business financing solutions to certain small and medium-sized merchants. Total merchant loans, advances interest and fees receivable outstanding as of March 31, 2018 , net of participation interest sold, were $1.2 billion. Total merchant loans, advances, interest and fees receivable outstanding as of March 31, 2017 were $566 million , representing a year-over-year increase of 117%, which was due primarily to the acquisition of Swift portfolio and its growth subsequent to acquisition, combined with increase in the availability of our PPWC credit products. We closely monitor credit quality for our merchant loans and advances that we extend or purchase so that we can evaluate, quantify, and manage our credit risk exposure. To assess a merchant seeking a business financing loan or advance, we use, among other 41 Table of Contents indicators, risk models developed internally which utilize information obtained from multiple data sources, both external and internal data to predict the likelihood of timely and satisfactory repayment by the merchant of the loan or advance amount and the related interest or fixed fee. Primary drivers of the models include the merchant's annual payment volume, payment processing history with PayPal and prior repayment history with the PayPal products where available, elements sourced from consumer credit bureau and business credit bureau reports, and other information obtained during the application process. We use delinquency status and trends to assist in making ongoing credit decisions, to adjust our internal models, to plan our collection practices and strategies and in our determination of our allowance for these loans and advances. For PPWC product, the number of days our merchant loans and advances receivables are past due is based on the current expected repayment period of the loan or advance and fixed fee as compared to an original expected repayment period. We generally calculate the repayment rate of the merchant's estimated future payment volume such that repayment of the advance and fixed fee is expected to occur within 9 to 12 months from the date of the loan or advance. On a monthly basis, we recalculate the repayment period based on the repayment activity on the receivable. As such, actual repayment periods are dependent on actual payment processing volumes. For Swift business loans, we receive fixed periodic payments over the contractual term of the loan which generally ranges from 3 to12 months. We monitor receivables with repayment periods greater than the original expected or contractual repayment period. The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our merchant receivables: March 31, 2018 2017 Merchant loans and advances Percent of merchant receivables within original expected or contractual repayment period 90.1 % 83.2 % Percent of merchant receivables > 90 days outstanding after the end of original expected or contractual repayment period 4.1 % 7.8 % Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters of our PayPal Credit products for the periods presented did not have a material impact on our loans. For additional information, see "Note 11Loans and Interest Receivable" in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Customer Support and Operations Customer support and operations expenses increased by $34 million , or 11% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to an increase in network infrastructure expenses and contractor and employee related expenses to support the growth in our active accounts and the number of payment transactions occurring on our Payments Platform. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $47 million , or 20% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to higher employee-related expenses. Our recent acquisitions contributed approximately nine percentage points to the growth rate. Product Development Product development expenses increased by $44 million , or 21% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses. Our recent acquisitions contributed approximately two percentage points to the growth rate. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $74 million , or 28% , in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses and facilities cost. Our recent acquisitions contributed approximately three percentage points to the growth rate. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2018 remained consistent as compared to the same period of the prior year. 42 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges increased by $113 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of the prior year due to cost basis adjustments related to our loans and receivables, held for sale portfolio, partially offset by lower restructuring charges incurred compared to the same period of the prior year. In March 2018, management approved a strategic reduction of the existing global workforce, including a decision to wind down TIO's operations, which resulted in restructuring charges of $25 million. The reduction and cash payments associated are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2018. Restructuring expenses were $40 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Due to the designation of the U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio as held for sale in November 2017, approximately $128 million related to adjustments to the cost basis, which are primarily driven by charge offs against those loans and interest receivables, were recorded in restructuring and other charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Income Tax Expense Our effective income tax rate was 7% and 12% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate was due primarily to discrete tax adjustments related to the accounting for the tax benefits of stock-based compensation. Non-GAAP Financial Information Non-GAAP financial information is defined as a numerical measure of a companys performance that excludes or includes amounts that create differences between the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation S-K, the following portion of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We present non-GAAP financial measures to enhance an investors evaluation of our operating results and to facilitate meaningful comparisons of our results between periods. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things; evaluate our operations, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation. We exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate: Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes . This consists of expenses for equity awards under our equity incentive plans. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. The related employer payroll taxes are dependent on our stock price and the timing and size of exercises and vesting of equity awards, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to the operation of our business. Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, and transaction expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business . We incur amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses or transactional expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business and therefore exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP measures. We exclude these items because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results. Restructuring. These consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. We exclude restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results. Certain other significant gains, losses, benefits, or charges that are not indicative of our core operating results. These are significant gains, losses, benefits, or charges during a period that are the result of isolated events or transactions which have not occurred frequently in the past and are not expected to occur regularly in the future. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP results because management does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operating results. 43 Table of Contents Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments. This adjustment is made to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income. The following table provides reconciliations of our condensed consolidated non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages) GAAP operating income $ 534 $ 431 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 241 149 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 29 23 Restructuring 25 40 Total non-GAAP operating income adjustments 295 212 Non-GAAP operating income $ 829 $ 643 Non-GAAP operating margin 22 % 22 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions, except percentages and per share data) GAAP income before income taxes $ 548 $ 438 GAAP income tax expense 37 54 GAAP net income 511 384 Non-GAAP adjustments to net income: Non-GAAP operating income adjustments (see table above) 295 212 Other (1) 3 Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (117 ) (62 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 692 $ 534 GAAP net income per diluted share $ 0.42 $ 0.32 Non-GAAP net income per diluted share $ 0.57 $ 0.44 Shares used in GAAP diluted share calculation 1,217 1,216 Shares used in non-GAAP diluted share calculation 1,217 1,216 GAAP income tax expense $ 37 $ 54 Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments 114 62 Non-GAAP income tax expense $ 151 $ 116 GAAP effective tax rate 7 % 12 % Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments to net income 11 % 6 % Non-GAAP effective tax rate 18 % 18 % (1) Tax expense related to the Tax Act. 44 Table of Contents In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, we also use free cash flow to assess our performance. Free cash flow represents cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property and equipment, and investments in our Payments Platform, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. A reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is presented below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (1) $ (349 ) $ 751 Less: purchases of property and equipment (178 ) (148 ) Free cash flow $ (527 ) $ 603 (1) The period ended March 31, 2018 includes a $1.3 billion reduction due to the change in presentation of the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require liquidity and access to capital to fund our global operations, including customer protection programs, our PayPal Credit products, capital expenditures, investments in our business, potential acquisitions, working capital and other cash needs. The following table summarizes the cash, cash equivalents and investments as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 : March 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 (In millions) Cash, cash equivalents and investments (1)(2) $ 7,622 $ 7,487 (1) Excludes assets related to customer accounts of $19.2 billion and $18.2 billion at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , respectively. (2) Excludes total restricted cash of $83 million and $81 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , respectively, and equity investments of $88 million as of both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 . Cash, cash equivalents and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $6.6 billion as of March 31, 2018 and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2017 , or 87% and 81% of our total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of those respective dates. At December 31, 2017, all of our cash, cash equivalents and investments held by foreign subsidiaries were subject to U.S. taxation under the one-time transition tax. Subsequent repatriations will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state or foreign withholding tax. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into a credit agreement ("2017 Credit Agreement") that provides for an unsecured $3.0 billion , 364 -day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which is available in up to three borrowings. Borrowings and other amounts payable under the 2017 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our PayPal, Inc. subsidiary. Subject to specified conditions, we may designate one or more of our subsidiaries as additional borrowers under the 2017 Credit Agreement provided that we and PayPal, Inc. guarantee all borrowings and other obligations of any such subsidiaries under the 2017 Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2018 , no subsidiaries were designated as additional borrowers. Funds borrowed under the 2017 Credit Agreement may be used for capital allocation and other general corporate purposes of us and our subsidiaries. Loans under the 2017 Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from 1.00 percent to 1.25 percent or (ii) a formula based on the agent bank's prime rate, the NYFRB rate (the greater of the federal funds effective rate and the overnight bank funding rate) or LIBOR plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from zero percent to 0.25 percent. The 2017 Credit Agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder will be due and payable in December 2018, unless the commitments are terminated earlier, either at our request or, if an event of default occurs, by the lenders (or automatically in the case of certain bankruptcy-related events). Subject to certain exceptions, if we were to issue debt securities or enter into a credit facility, a corresponding portion of the aggregate commitments and outstanding loans under the 2017 Credit Agreement will be terminated and be required to be paid, as applicable. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the lenders. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants require us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, based on our public debt ratings. 45 Table of Contents During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we effected two drawdowns aggregating to $2.0 billion under the 2017 Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2018 , $3.0 billion was outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement at a weighted average interest rate of 2.88% . Accordingly, at March 31, 2018 , no borrowing capacity was available under the 2017 Credit Agreement. On April 5, 2018, we repaid $1.0 billion of the borrowings outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement. No remaining borrowing capacity is available under this agreement. We maintain uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world, aggregating to approximately $350 million of borrowing capacity. Interest rate terms for these facilities vary by region and reflect prevailing market rates for companies with strong credit ratings. As of March 31, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding under these facilities, and therefore, approximately $350 million of borrowing capacity was available, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. In the third quarter of 2015, we entered into a credit agreement ("2015 Credit Agreement" and collectively with the 2017 Credit Agreement, the "Credit Agreements") that provides for an unsecured $2.0 billion , 5 -year revolving credit facility that includes a $150 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $150 million swingline sub-facility, with available borrowings under the revolving credit facility reduced by the amount of any letters of credit and swingline borrowings outstanding from time to time. Borrowings and other amounts payable under the 2015 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our PayPal, Inc. subsidiary. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $500 million . Subject to specified conditions, we may designate one or more of our subsidiaries as additional borrowers under the 2015 Credit Agreement provided that we and PayPal Inc. guarantee all borrowings and other obligations of any such subsidiaries under the 2015 Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2018 , no subsidiaries were designated as additional borrowers. Funds borrowed under the 2015 Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Loans under the 2015 Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from 1.00 percent to 1.625 percent or (ii) a formula based on the agent banks prime rate, the federal funds effective rate or LIBOR plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from zero percent to 0.625 percent. Subject to certain conditions stated in the 2015 Credit Agreement, we and any of our subsidiaries designated as additional borrowers may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the revolving credit facility at any time during the term of the 2015 Credit Agreement. The 2015 Credit Agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder will be due and payable on July 17, 2020, unless (a) the commitments are terminated earlier, either at our request or, if an event of default occurs, by the lenders (or automatically in the case of certain bankruptcy-related events), or (b) the maturity date is extended upon our request, subject to the agreement of the lenders. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants require us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, based on our public debt ratings. As of March 31, 2018 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement. Accordingly, at March 31, 2018 , $2.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the 2015 Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. The arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). The arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under these arrangements. As of March 31, 2018 , we had a total of $3.8 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $3.8 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. Growth in the portfolio of loan receivables increases our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate partnerships and third party sources of funding of our credit portfolio. In March 2016, as approved by management and our Luxembourg banking subsidiary's Supervisory Board and as permitted within regulations set forth by the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (the "CSSF"), we designated $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used to extend credit to our European customers. In the fourth quarter of 2017, an additional amount of $700 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary was approved and designated to be used to extend credit to our U.S. consumers. These funds were classified as cash and cash equivalents in our condensed consolidated balance sheet on the date of designation and represent approximately 26% of European customer balances potentially available for corporate use by us at March 31, 2018 as determined by applying financial regulations maintained by the CSSF. We may periodically seek to designate additional amounts of customer 46 Table of Contents balances, if necessary, based on utilization of the approved funds and anticipated credit funding requirements. Our objective is to expand the availability of our credit products with capital from external sources, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that goal. In November 2017, we reached an agreement to sell our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank. Historically, this portfolio was reported as outstanding principal balances, net of any participation interest sold and pro-rata allowances including, unamortized deferred origination costs and estimated collectible interest and fees. Following the closing of this transaction, which is expected to occur in the third quarter of 2018, Synchrony Bank will become the exclusive issuer of the PayPal credit online consumer financing program in the U.S., and we will no longer hold an ownership interest in the receivables generated through the program (other than charged off receivables). As of March 31, 2018 , we continue to be rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Fitch Ratings, Inc. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor our performance, including our capital structure and results of operations. Our goal is to be rated investment grade, but as circumstances change there are factors that could result in our credit ratings being downgraded or put on a watch list for possible downgrading. If that were to occur, it could increase our borrowing rates, including the interest rate on loans under the Credit Agreements. The risk of losses from our customer protection programs are specific to individual customers, merchants and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations in and changes or modifications to, the programs, including as a result of changes in regulatory requirements. For the periods presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, our transaction loss rates, calculated by dividing transaction loss by TPV, ranged between 0.17% and 0.18% of TPV. Historical trends may not be an indication of future results. In April 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $5 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. The stock repurchase program is intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, may also be used to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase program may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions including accelerated share repurchase agreements or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. However, any stock repurchases are subject to market conditions and other uncertainties and we cannot predict if or when any stock repurchases will be made. Moreover, we may terminate our stock repurchase program at any time without notice. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we repurchased approximately $825 million of our common stock through open market repurchases and approximately $1.0 billion pursuant to the ASR agreement, under our stock repurchase program authorized in April 2017. As of March 31, 2018 , a total of approximately $3.2 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Our liquidity, access to capital and borrowing costs could be adversely impacted by declines in our credit rating, our financial performance and global credit market conditions, as well as a broad range of other factors. In addition, our liquidity, access to capital and borrowing costs could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K, as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q, as well as Note 13Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional discussion of these and other risks facing our business. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, and PayPal Credit products for the foreseeable future. Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance acquisitions, repurchase shares under our share repurchase program or reduce our cost of capital. 47 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (349 ) $ 751 Investing activities 5 (1,243 ) Financing activities 793 (54 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (7 ) 11 Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 442 $ (535 ) Operating Activities The net cash used in operating activities of $349 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to the $1.3 billion negative impact of changes in the loans and interest receivable held for sale, net and changes in other assets and liabilities of $468 million primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period. These uses of cash were partially offset by operating income of $534 million and adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation of $390 million and expenses related to provision for transaction and loan losses of $305 million . We generated cash from operating activities of $751 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 due primarily to operating income of approximately $431 million. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation were approximately $328 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $300 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in other assets and liabilities of $366 million primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period and timing of employee related costs, including bonus payments under our annual incentive award program. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we received a net cash refund of income taxes of $6 million . Cash paid for income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $48 million . Investing Activities We generated cash from investing activities of $5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $5.3 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $178 million offset by maturities and sales of investments of $4.3 billion , changes in principal loans receivable, net of $738 million , and changes in funds receivable from customers of $429 million . The net cash used in investing activities of $1.2 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2017 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $7.1 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $136 million and purchases of property and equipment of $148 million. These net cash outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $5.6 billion and changes in funds receivable from customers of $567 million . Financing Activities We generated cash from financing activities of $793 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 due primarily to borrowings on our 2017 Credit Agreement of $2.0 billion and increase in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $865 million . These net inflows were offset by the repurchase of $1.8 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $335 million . The net cash used in financing activities of $54 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 was due primarily to the repurchase of $517 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $101 million offset by increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $552 million. 48 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. See "Non-GAAP Financial Information" above for information on how we compute free cash flow and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We had negative free cash flow of $527 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 , representing a decrease of $1.1 billion from the same period of the prior year. The decrease in free cash flow during the period was due to lower cash generated from operating activities of $1.1 billion , which was impacted by the change in presentation from investing activities to operating activities of originations and collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017, and higher purchases of property and equipment of $30 million as compared to the same period of the prior year. Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we had a negative effect of currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $7 million due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Australian dollar. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 we had a positive effect of currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $11 million , due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 49 Table of Contents