Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part II Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our unaudited condensed combined and consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed combined and consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. The Separation from eBay On September 30, 2014, eBay Inc. (eBay) announced its intent to separate its payments business into an independent, publicly-traded company. To accomplish this separation, in January 2015, eBay incorporated PayPal Holdings, Inc. (PayPal) which is now the parent of PayPal, Inc. and holds directly or indirectly all of the assets and liabilities associated with PayPal, Inc. In June 2015, the Board of Directors of eBay approved the separation (the "separation") of eBay's payments business through the distribution (the "distribution") of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to eBay's stockholders. PayPal's registration statement on Form 10, as amended, was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2015. On July 17, 2015 (the "distribution date"), PayPal became an independent publicly-traded company through the pro rata distribution by eBay of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to eBay stockholders. Each eBay stockholder of record as of the close of business on July 8, 2015 received one share of PayPal common stock for every share of eBay common stock held on the record date. Approximately 1.2 billion shares of PayPal common stock were distributed on July 17, 2015 to eBay stockholders. PayPal's common stock began "regular way" trading under the ticker symbol "PYPL" on The NASDAQ Stock Market on July 20, 2015. Prior to the separation, eBay transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of eBay's payments business to PayPal, which was completed in June 2015 (the "capitalization"). The combined financial statements prior to the capitalization were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from eBay's consolidated financial statements and accounting records. The combined financial statements reflect our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows as our business was operated as part of eBay prior to the capitalization. Following the capitalization, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PayPal and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The condensed combined and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of dates and for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate stand-alone entity during the periods presented, nor are they indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be in the future. For additional information, see Note 1 to our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, references to we, our, us, the Company and PayPal refer to PayPal Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries or, in the case of information as of dates or for periods prior to the separation, the combined and consolidated entities of the payments business of eBay, including PayPal, Inc. and certain other assets and liabilities that had been historically held at the eBay corporate level but were specifically identifiable and attributable to the payments business. Business Environment We are a leading technology platform company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. We believe in providing simple, affordable, secure and reliable financial services and digital payments to help our 30 customers around the world to achieve their financial goals. We strive to increase our relevance for consumers, merchants, friends and family to access and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and through any device (e.g., mobile, tablets, personal computers or wearables). Our goal is to provide safer and simpler ways for businesses of all sizes to accept payments from merchant websites, mobile devices and applications, and at offline retail locations through a wide range of payment solutions. We also facilitate person to person payments through PayPal, Venmo and Xoom. Our combined payment solution capabilities, including our PayPal, PayPal Credit, Braintree, Venmo, and Xoom products, comprise our proprietary Payments Platform. We provide merchants and consumers with protection programs on substantially all transactions completed through our Payments Platform, except for transactions using our gateway and Paydiant products. Our gateway products include our Payflow Payments and certain Braintree products. A payment gateway links a merchant's website to their processing network and merchant account. These programs protect both merchants and consumers from loss primarily due to fraud and counterparty non-performance. Our risk management capabilities allow us to provide these protections, which we believe are generally broader than those protections provided by other participants in the payments industry. Most major payments providers do not offer merchant protection in general, and those that do so generally do not provide protection of online or card not present transactions. As a result, merchants may incur losses for chargebacks and other claims on certain transactions when using other payments providers that they would not incur if they had used PayPals payments services. PayPal also provides consumer protection against losses on qualifying purchases and accepts claims for 180 days post transaction in the markets that PayPal serves. We believe that this protection is generally consistent with, or better than, that offered by other major payments providers. We believe that as a result of these programs, consumers can be confident that they will only be required to pay if they receive the product in the condition as described, and merchants can be confident that they will receive payment for the product that they are delivering to the customer. Our Payments Platform and open application programming interfaces (APIs) are designed to allow developers to innovate with ease and to offer cutting edge applications to a large ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers financial information. We provide developers with easy to use, flexible and powerful tools that are designed to leverage our global reach and payment capabilities. Our software developer kits (SDKs) are specifically focused on the mobile application market and are designed to remove friction by not requiring a redirect to PayPal.com or an additional login. We are using a true mobile first approach to make payments simple and intuitive. Information security risks for global payments and technology companies have significantly increased in recent years. Although we are not aware of any material impacts relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches on our Payments Platform, there can be no assurance that we are immune to these risks and will not suffer such losses in the future. See Risk Factors-Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition-Our business is subject to online security risks, including security and privacy breaches described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. That focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy and consumer protection. Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. Non-compliance with laws and regulations, increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, and the enactment of new laws and regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, we monitor these areas closely to ensure compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us. Overview of Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Net revenues increased $407 million , or 19% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by growth in TPV (as defined below) of 29% compared to the same period of the prior year. Operating expenses increased $322 million , or 18% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in transaction expense, transaction and loan losses, customer support and operations and depreciation and amortization. Operating income increased $85 million , or 26% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. Non-GAAP operating income increased $64 million , or 14% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to 31 the same period of the prior year. Our operating margin was 16% and 15% in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 21% and 22% in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Operating income increased primarily due to the increase in net revenues, restructuring expenses of $48 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and other operating efficiencies. Non-GAAP operating income increased primarily due to the increase in net revenues and other operating efficiencies. Net income increased by $110 million , or 43% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in net income was attributable to an increase in operating income of $85 million, an increase in other income, net of $16 million and a decrease in income tax expense of $9 million. Non-GAAP net income increased by $92 million , or 26% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , our diluted net income per share was $0.30 , a $0.09 increase compared to the same period of the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 our non-GAAP diluted net income per share was $0.37 , a $0.08 increase compared to the same period of the prior year. We generated net cash flows from operating activities of $738 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , compared to $544 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . We generated free cash flow (a non-GAAP financial measure) of $605 million and $350 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The following table provides a summary of our combined and consolidated GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 : Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Net revenues $ 2,544 $ 2,137 19 % Operating expenses 2,137 1,815 18 % Operating income 407 322 26 % Income tax expense 57 66 (14 )% Effective tax rate 13.5 % 20.6 % ** Net income $ 365 $ 255 43 % Net income per diluted share (1)(2) $ 0.30 $ 0.21 43 % (1) On July 17, 2015, the distribution date, eBay stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 8, 2015 received one share of PayPal common stock for every share of eBay common stock held as of the record date. Basic and diluted net income per share for the three months ended March 31, 2015 is calculated using the number of common shares distributed on the distribution date. (2) Basic and diluted net income per share for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is calculated using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. ** Not Meaningful The following table provides a summary of our combined and consolidated non-GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 : Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Non-GAAP operating income $ 537 $ 473 14 % Non-GAAP operating margin 21 % 22 % ** Non-GAAP net income $ 452 $ 360 26 % Non-GAAP net income per diluted share (1)(2) $ 0.37 $ 0.29 25 % Free cash flow $ 605 $ 350 73 % (1) Non-GAAP net income per diluted share for the three months ended March 31, 2015 is calculated using the number of shares of PayPal common stock distributed on the distribution date. (2) Non-GAAP net income per diluted share for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is calculated using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. ** Not Meaningful 32 Non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share and free cash flow are not financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For information on how we compute these non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, please refer to Non-GAAP Financial Information below. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, as well as other currencies in which we conduct our international operations, impacts the translation of our net revenues and expenses generated in these foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , we generated approximately 47% and 52% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States, respectively. Other than the United States, the United Kingdom was the only country where we generated more than 10% of total net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 . During each of these periods, we also generated more than 10% of total net revenues in the Euro zone. Because we have generated substantial net revenues internationally in recent periods, including during the periods presented, we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries as discussed under Risk FactorsRisk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency exchange rates applied to current period transactional currency amounts. While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect our reported results, we have a foreign exchange exposure management program whereby we designate certain foreign currency exchange contracts as cash flow hedges to help minimize the impact on earnings from foreign currency rate movements. Gains and losses from these foreign currency exchange contracts are recognized as a component of transaction revenues in the same period the forecasted transactions impact earnings. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues by approximately $15 million (inclusive of a $32 million favorable impact from hedging activities) and favorably impacted operating expenses by approximately $30 million. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues by approximately $80 million (inclusive of a $50 million favorable impact from hedging activities) and favorably impacted operating expenses by approximately $75 million. While we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to minimize the impact on earnings from foreign currency rate movements, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. Additionally, in connection with our services in multiple currencies, we set our foreign exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set our foreign exchange rates. Given that we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, we have an additional foreign exchange exposure management program whereby we use foreign exchange contracts to offset the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in Other income (expense), net, which is offset by the gains and losses on the foreign exchange contracts. These foreign exchange contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. Financial Results Net revenues We earn revenue from the following types of transactions: Transaction revenues: Net transaction fees charged to consumers and merchants based on the volume of activity processed through our Payments Platform, including our PayPal, PayPal Credit, Venmo, Braintree and Xoom products. Other value added services: Net revenues derived principally from interest and fees earned on our PayPal Credit loans receivable portfolio, subscription fees, gateway fees, gain on sale of participation interests in certain consumer loans receivable, revenue share we earn through partnerships, interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances, fees earned through our Paydiant products and other services that we provide to consumers and merchants. 33 Net revenue analysis The significant components of our net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Transaction revenues $ 2,238 $ 1,914 17 % Other value-added services 306 223 37 % Net revenues $ 2,544 $ 2,137 19 % Transaction revenue grew by $324 million , or 17% , for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in transaction revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to the growth in TPV and the growth in total number of payment transactions on our Payments Platform, both of which were due to increased engagement from our customers and growth from our Braintree products. The following table provides a summary of our active customer accounts, number of payment transactions, TPV and related metrics: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Active customer accounts 1 184 165 11 % Number of payment transactions 2 1,414 1,123 26 % Payment transactions per active account 3 28.4 25.2 12 % Total TPV 4 $ 81,056 $ 63,021 29 % Percent of cross-border TPV 23 % 23 % % All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest millions, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. 1 An active customer account is a registered account that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products, in the past 12 months. 2 Payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products. 3 Number of payment transactions per active customer account reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12 month period, divided by active customer accounts at the end of the period 4 Total Payment Volume or TPV is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products. The growth in transaction revenues was lower than the growth in TPV and growth in payment transactions for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due to a higher portion of person-to-person transactions, primarily from our PayPal and Venmo products, in which we earn lower rates and a higher portion of TPV generated by large merchants who generally pay lower rates on higher transaction volume. The percentage of TPV generated by large merchants increased three percentage points in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. The impact of changes in prices charged to our customers did not significantly impact revenue growth in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net revenues from other value-added services increased by $83 million , or 37% , for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in net revenues from other value-added services for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to interest and fee income earned on loans receivable outstanding from consumers and merchants that use our PayPal Credit products and revenue share earned under our credit program agreement with Synchrony Financial (formerly GE Capital Retail Bank). In 2015, we amended the terms of our credit program agreement with Synchrony Financial. As a result of the amendment, net revenues from other value-added services increased by $29 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year. 34 Operating Expenses Beginning with the first quarter of 2016, we reclassified certain operating expenses in our condensed combined and consolidated statements of income to better align our external and internal financial reporting. These classification changes relate primarily to real estate and information technology operating expenses that were previously allocated among customer support and operations expense, sales and marketing expense and product development expense. Our management does not allocate these operating expenses for internal financial reporting purposes or general management of the business and has therefore discontinued this allocation for external financial reporting purposes. As a result, starting with the first quarter of 2016 these operating expenses are reported as part of general and administrative expenses. These changes have no impact on the previously reported condensed combined and consolidated net income for prior periods, including total operating expenses, financial position or cash flows for any periods presented, and do not eliminate any of the costs allocated to us by eBay for any periods prior to the separation. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 1- Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-Q for additional information on the effects of the changes on the presentation of operating expenses to our previously reported condensed combined and consolidated statement of income on a GAAP basis. Growth rates presented below are calculated based upon the reclassified prior period amounts. The following table summarizes our operating expenses and related metrics we use to assess the trend in each: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent Increase/(Decrease) 2016 2015 (In millions, except percentages) Transaction expense $ 752 $ 575 31 % Transaction and loan losses 255 178 43 % Customer support and operations 296 249 19 % Sales and marketing 233 222 5 % Product development 195 185 5 % General and administrative 231 217 6 % Depreciation and amortization 175 141 24 % Restructuring 48 ** Total operating expenses $ 2,137 $ 1,815 18 % Transaction expense rate 1 0.93 % 0.91 % ** Transaction and loan loss rate 2 0.31 % 0.28 % ** 1 Transaction expense rate is calculated by dividing transaction expense by TPV. 2 Transaction and loan loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction and loan loss by TPV. ** Not Meaningful Transaction expense Transaction expense increased by $177 million , or 31% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in transaction expense in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily attributable to an increase in TPV, offset by favorable foreign currency fluctuations due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Our transaction expense rate in the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to growth from our Braintree products, which is predominantly credit or debit card funded, and higher assessments charged by payments processors and other financial institutions. The cost of funding a transaction with a credit or debit card is generally more costly than the cost of funding a transaction from a bank or through internal sources such as a PayPal account balance or PayPal Credit. As we expand the availability of alternative funding sources to our customers, a change in funding mix could increase or decrease our transaction expense rate. Funding mix did not have a material impact on our transaction expense rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 . For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , approximately 2% of TPV was funded with PayPal Credit. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , approximately 45% and 46% of TPV, respectively, was generated outside of the U.S. Interest expense on borrowings incurred to finance our portfolio of loans receivable, included in transaction expense, was not material in the three months ended March 31, 2016 or the three months ended March 31, 2015 . 35 Transaction and loan losses Prior to the distribution on July 17, 2015, we recovered certain amounts from eBay related to customer protection programs offered on eligible eBay purchases made with PayPal. These costs included the actual amount of protection losses associated with eBay's customer protection programs that we administered and funded on behalf of eBay, which were included as a reduction of transaction and loan losses. Recoveries associated with transaction losses incurred on eligible eBay purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $10 million . Following the distribution, we no longer administer eBay's customer protection programs or recover amounts from eBay associated with transaction losses incurred on eligible eBay purchases; instead, PayPal and eBay independently administers its own customer protection programs. Further, our customer protection programs extend to customers eligible purchases on eBay and therefore we expect to incur incremental costs associated with our customer protection programs following the distribution. Transaction and loan losses increased by $77 million , or 43% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. Transaction losses were $157 million and $107 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, reflecting an increase of 47% primarily attributable to an increase in TPV and lower transaction losses in the prior period as a result of recoveries associated with transaction losses incurred on eligible eBay purchases. Our transaction loss rate in the three months ended March 31, 2016 increased compared to the same period of the prior year due to recoveries in the prior period associated with transaction losses incurred on eligible eBay purchases and a lower provision in the prior year from lower actual losses incurred. Loan losses relating to our loans receivable portfolio were $98 million and $71 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, reflecting an increase of 38% . The increase in loan losses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to an increase in the loan receivable balance year-over-year and from additional reserves recorded in the current period due to changes in forecasted principal balance delinquency rates. The total consumer loans receivable balance as of March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015 was $4.0 billion and $3.6 billion , respectively, reflecting a year over year increase of 11% . The increase in consumer loans receivables was due to the growth in the portfolio of loans receivable outstanding arising from consumers who chose PayPal Credit as a funding option. The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our pool of consumer loans and interest receivable balance: March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 Percentage of Loans Receivable with FICO scores > 680 (1) 52 % 52 % Percentage of Loans Receivable with FICO scores 90 days outstanding 4 % 4 % Net charge off rate (2) 6.1 % 6.1 % (1) Excludes certain outstanding consumer loans outside of the U.S., for which no FICO scores are available, with an outstanding balance of $79 million and $17 million at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, respectively. (2) Net charge off rate is the annualized ratio of net credit losses as a percentage of the average daily principal amount of consumer loans receivables balance during the period. We offer credit products to certain existing small and medium-sized merchants through our PayPal Working Capital product. The total PayPal Working Capital advances and fees receivable ("Merchant Receivables") outstanding as of March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015 was $488 million and $145 million , respectively, reflecting a year over year increase of 237% . The increase in merchant receivables was due to increased originations of our PayPal Working Capital product. To assess a merchant seeking a PayPal Working Capital advance, we use, among other indicators, a risk model that we have internally developed that we refer to as our PayPal Working Capital Risk Model (PRM), as a credit quality indicator to help predict the merchant's ability to repay the principal balance and fixed fee related to the working capital advance. The PRM uses multiple variables as predictors of the merchant's ability to repay a working capital advance. Drivers of the model include the merchant's annual payment volume and payment processing history with PayPal, prior repayment history with the PayPal Working Capital product, and other measures. Merchants are assigned a PRM credit score within the range of 350 to 750. We generally expect that merchants to which we extend a working capital advance will have PRM scores greater than 525. We generally consider scores above 610 to be very good and to pose limited credit risk. We assess a participating merchants PRM score on a recurring basis. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the weighted average PRM score related to our PayPal Working Capital balances outstanding was 638 and 634 , respectively. 36 The determination of delinquency for merchant receivables is based on the current expected repayment period of the advance and fixed fee as compared to the original expected repayment period. We calculate the repayment rate based on the merchant's expected future payment volume such that repayment of the advance and fixed fee is typically expected to occur within 9 to 12 months from the date of the advance. On a monthly basis, we recalculate the repayment period based on the actual repayment activity on the receivable. As such, actual repayment periods are dependent on actual payment processing volumes. The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our merchant receivables: March 31, March 31, 2016 2015 Percentage of Merchant Receivable with PRM scores > 630 66 % 62 % Percentage of Merchant Receivable with PRM scores 90 days outstanding 8 % 6 % Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters of our PayPal Credit products for the periods presented did not have a material impact on our loan losses. Customer support and operations Customer support and operations expenses increased by $47 million , or 19% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to an increase in headcount and an increase in contractor related expenses to service the growth in our active customer accounts and the number of payment transactions occurring on our Payments Platform. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses increased by $11 million , or 5% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to higher marketing spend on advertising campaigns intended to enhance our global brand recognition. Product development Product development expenses increased by $10 million , or 5% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to an increase in employee related expenses due primarily to acquisitions completed during 2015. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $14 million , or 6% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to an increase in contractor related expenses incurred to operate as an independent public company offset by a decrease in expenses associated with regulatory matters recognized in the prior period. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $34 million , or 24% , in the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to additional amortization expense for intangible assets. Amortization expense for intangible assets was $38 million and $19 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, reflecting a year over year increase of 100% due primarily to acquisitions completed during 2015. Additionally, in connection with the capitalization of PayPal in June 2015, we received a contribution of fixed assets from eBay, resulting in increased depreciation expense. 37 Restructuring In January 2015, at a regular meeting of eBays Board of Directors (the eBay Board), the eBay Board approved a plan to implement a strategic reduction of its existing global workforce. The reduction was substantially completed in the first half of 2015. Restructuring expenses were $48 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . No restructuring expenses were recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Income Tax Expense Our effective income tax rate was 13.5% and 20.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily the result of discrete tax adjustments. Non-GAAP Financial Information Non-GAAP financial information is defined as a numerical measure of a companys performance that excludes or includes amounts so as to be different than the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation S-K, the following portion of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We present non-GAAP financial measures to enhance an investors evaluation of our ongoing operating results and to facilitate meaningful comparisons of our results between periods. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things; evaluate our ongoing operations, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation. We exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate: Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes . This consists of expenses for equity awards under our equity incentive plans. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that management does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. The related employer payroll taxes are dependent on our stock price and the timing and size of exercises and vesting of equity awards, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to the operation of our business. Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, and transaction expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business . We incur amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses or transactional expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business and therefore exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP measures. We exclude these items because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results. Separation . These are significant expenses related to the separation of our business from eBay into a separate, independent publicly-traded company. These consist primarily of third-party consulting fees, legal fees, employee retention payments and other expenses incurred to complete the separation. We exclude these items because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results. Restructuring. These consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. We exclude restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results. Other certain significant gains, losses, or charges that are not indicative of our core operating results. These are significant gains, losses, or charges during a period that are the result of isolated events or transactions which have not occurred frequently in the past and are not expected to occur regularly in the future. We exclude these amounts from our results because management does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operating results. Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments. This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income. 38 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (In millions) GAAP operating income $ 407 $ 322 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 96 82 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 34 16 Separation 5 Restructuring 48 Total non-GAAP operating income adjustments 130 151 Non-GAAP operating income $ 537 $ 473 Non-GAAP operating margin 21 % 22 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (In millions) GAAP income before income taxes $ 422 $ 321 GAAP provision for income taxes 57 66 GAAP net income 365 255 Non-GAAP adjustments to net income: Non-GAAP operating income adjustments (see table above) 130 151 Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments (43 ) (46 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 452 $ 360 Non-GAAP net income per diluted share $ 0.37 $ 0.29 Shares used in non-GAAP diluted share calculation (1)(2) 1,225 1,224 GAAP effective tax rate 14 % 21 % Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments to net income 4 % 3 % Non-GAAP effective tax rate 18 % 24 % (1) Non-GAAP net income per diluted share for the three months ended March 31, 2015 is based on the number of shares of PayPal common stock outstanding on the distribution date. (2) Non-GAAP net income per diluted share for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, we also use free cash flow to assess our performance. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, equipment, including investments in our Payments Platform, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. A reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is presented below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 738 $ 544 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (133 ) (194 ) Free cash flow $ 605 $ 350 39 Liquidity and Capital Resources We require liquidity and access to capital to fund our global operations, including customer protection programs, our PayPal Credit products, capital expenditures, investments in our business, potential acquisitions, working capital and other cash needs. The following table summarizes the cash, cash equivalents and investment balances available as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 : March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 (In millions) Cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investment securities (1)(2) $ 6,358 $ 5,707 (1) Excludes assets related to customer accounts of $12.2 billion and $12.3 billion at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. (2) Excludes total restricted cash of $25 million and $26 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively, and cost method investments of $45 million and $26 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. Cash, cash equivalents and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries (i.e., any entities where earnings would be subject to United States tax upon repatriation) were $5.0 billion as of March 31, 2016 and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2015 , or 79% and 74% of our total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of those dates, respectively. In July 2015, we entered into a credit agreement ("Credit Agreement") that provides for an unsecured $2.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility that includes a $150 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $150 million swingline sub-facility, with available borrowings under the revolving credit facility reduced by the amount of any letters of credit and swingline borrowings outstanding from time to time. Borrowings and other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by PayPal, Inc. (the "Guarantor"). We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $500 million. Subject to specified conditions, we may designate one or more of our subsidiaries as additional borrowers under the Credit Agreement provided that we and the Guarantor guarantee all borrowings and other obligations of any such subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2016 , no subsidiaries were designated as additional borrowers. Funds borrowed under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes . As of March 31, 2016 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Accordingly, at March 31, 2016 , $2.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the Credit Agreement subject to customary conditions to borrowings. Loans under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from 1.00 percent to 1.625 percent or (ii) a formula based on the agent banks prime rate, the federal funds effective rate or LIBOR plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from zero percent to 0.625 percent. Subject to certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreement, we and any of our subsidiaries designated as additional borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the revolving credit facility at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder will be due and payable on July 17, 2020, unless (a) the commitments are terminated earlier, either at our request or, if an event of default occurs, by the lenders (or automatically in the case of certain bankruptcy-related events), or (b) the maturity date is extended upon our request, subject to the agreement of the lenders. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants require us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, based on our public debt ratings. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. The arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). The arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under these arrangements. As of March 31, 2016 , we had a total of $2.0 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $2.0 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. Growth in the portfolio of loan receivables increases our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate partnerships and third party sources of funding of our credit portfolio, 40 including, but not limited to, commercial banks, securitization markets, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds. Consistent with this strategy, in March 2016, as approved by management and our Luxembourg banking subsidiary Supervisory Board and as permitted within regulations set forth by the CSSF, we designated $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used to extend credit to our European customers. These funds have been classified as cash and cash equivalents in our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2016 and represented 27% of European customer balances potentially available for corporate use by us as determined by applying financial regulations maintained by the CSSF. As of March 31, 2016 , none of these funds had been utilized to extend credit. We may periodically seek to designate additional amounts of customer balances, if necessary, based on utilization of the approved funds and anticipated credit funding requirements. Our objective is to expand the availability of our credit products with capital from external sources, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that goal. As of March 31, 2016 , we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Fitch Ratings, Inc. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor our performance, including our capital structure and results of operations. Our goal is to be rated investment grade, but as circumstances change there are factors that could result in our credit ratings being downgraded or put on a watch list for possible downgrading. If that were to occur, it could increase our borrowing costs, including the interest rate on loans under our Credit Agreement. The risk of losses from our customer protection programs are specific to individual customers, merchants and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations in the programs and modifications to the programs resulting from changes to regulatory requirements. For the periods presented in these condensed combined and consolidated financial statements included in this report, payments under these customer protection programs have ranged between 0.10% and 0.12% of TPV. Historical trends may not be an indication of future results. In addition, prior to the distribution, we recovered certain amounts from eBay related to customer protection programs offered on eligible eBay purchases made with PayPal. These costs included the actual amount of protection losses associated with eBay's customer protection programs that we administered and funded on behalf of eBay, which are included as a reduction of transaction and loan losses. Following the distribution, we no longer administer eBay's customer protection programs or recover amounts from eBay associated with transaction losses incurred on eligible eBay purchases; instead, we and eBay each independently administer our own customer protection programs. Further, our customer protection programs extend to customers eligible purchases on eBay and therefore we have incurred and expect to continue to incur incremental costs associated with our customer protection programs following the distribution. In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $2 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. This stock repurchase program is intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, may also be used to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase program may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. However, any stock repurchases are subject to market conditions and other uncertainties and we cannot predict if or when any stock repurchases will be made. Moreover, we may terminate our stock repurchase program at any time without notice. During the first quarter of 2016, we repurchased approximately $596 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. As of March 31, 2016 , a total of approximately $1.4 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Our liquidity, access to capital and borrowing costs could be adversely impacted by declines in our credit rating, our financial performance, and global credit market conditions, as well as a broad range of other factors. In addition, our liquidity, access to capital and borrowing costs could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. See Risk FactorsRisk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and Note 11Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed combined and consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-Q for additional discussion of these and other risks facing our business. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, such as commercial banks, private equity firms, and sovereign wealth funds, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, and PayPal Credit products for the foreseeable future. Cash Flows We designated $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used to extend credit to our European customers. We have elected to present changes in funds receivable and customer accounts as cash flows 41 from investing activities in our condensed combined and consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the activity underlying our customer accounts which includes purchases of investments, maturities and sales of investments and changes in funds receivable and customer accounts. We have elected to conform the prior period statement of cash flows to the current period presentation to enhance transparency and provide comparability. See Note 1Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-Q for additional information on the effects of the changes on the presentation of our statement of cash flows to our previously reported combined and consolidated statement of cash flows. The following table summarizes our condensed combined and consolidated statement of cash flows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 738 $ 544 Investing activities 325 (587 ) Financing activities 113 239 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 14 (32 ) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,190 $ 164 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities includes net income adjusted for certain non-cash expenses, timing differences between expenses recognized for provision for transaction and loan losses and actual transaction losses paid, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Significant non-cash expenses for the period include depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, and deferred tax expenses. The cash impact from actual transaction losses incurred during a period are reflected as a negative impact to changes in other current and non-current assets in cash from operating activities. The expenses recognized during the period for provision for loan losses are estimates of probable incurred losses on our PayPal Credit products for which the receivable has not been charged off. Actual charge offs of receivables related to our PayPal Credit products are reflected as a reduction in changes in principal loans receivable impacting investing activities and thus have no impact on cash from operating activities. We generated cash from operating activities of $738 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 due primarily to operating income of approximately $407 million . Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation (including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation) were approximately $268 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to transaction and loan losses were approximately $255 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by increases in accounts receivable of $22 million and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $158 million primarily related to actual transaction losses paid during the period, timing of employee related costs, including bonus payments under our annual incentive award program, offset by a benefit from timing differences in funding deposits related to our Xoom business and other changes in our current assets and liabilities. We generated cash from operating activities of $544 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to operating income of $322 million. Adjustments for non-cash charges in operating income increased during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year and included $178 million related to transaction and loan losses, $141 million related to depreciation and amortization and $79 million related to stock-based compensation. These adjustments were offset by an increase in working capital of $150 million. Cash paid for income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $24 million and $5 million , respectively. Investing Activities The net cash provided by investing activities of $325 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to maturities and sales of investments of $4.2 billion and decreases in funds receivable from customers and customer accounts of $492 million primarily due to classifying $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary as cash and cash equivalents. These net cash inflows were offset by purchases of investments of $4.1 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $133 million . 42 The net cash used in investing activities of $587 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $2.4 billion , increases in funds receivable from customers and customer accounts of $527 million , purchases of property and equipment of $194 million and net cash outflows relating to receivables from eBay of $56 million . Purchases of property and equipment increased in the period due in part to the anticipated separation from eBay. These net cash outflows were offset by maturities and sales of investments of $2.6 billion . Financing Activities The net cash provided by financing activities of $113 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $738 million offset by the repurchase of $596 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. The net cash provided by financing activities of $239 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $333 million , offset by repayments of borrowings from eBay of $119 million . Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. Free cash flow was $605 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , an increase of $255 million from the same period of the prior year. The increase in free cash flow during the period was primarily due to higher cash generated from operating activities of $738 million offset by higher purchases of property and equipment of $133 million . Free cash flow generated during the three months ended March 31, 2016 was used for general business purposes. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. See "Non-GAAP Financial Information" above for information on how we compute free cash flow and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash The effect of currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2016 was a favorable impact of $14 million due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. The effect of currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was an unfavorable impact of $32 million due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our combined and consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 43