Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements; and exemptions from the requirements of holding nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have elected to take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and may elect to take advantage of other reduced reporting requirements in future filings. As a result, the information that we provide to our stockholders may be different from what you might receive from other public reporting companies in which you hold equity interests. In addition, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of this exemption and, as a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that we can elect to opt out of the extended transition period at any time, which election is irrevocable. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion; (ii) the last day of 2024; (iii) the date that we become a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (referred to as the Exchange Act), which would occur if the market value of our common equity held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter; or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during any three-year period. Regulations Introduction We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of financial institutions we may work with. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing banks, could have a material impact on our operations. 7 Our products and services are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: anti-money laundering laws; money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations; escheatment laws; privacy and information safeguard laws; bank regulations; consumer protection laws; and false claims laws and other fraud and abuse restrictions. privacy and security standards under HIPAA or other laws These laws are often evolving and sometimes ambiguous or inconsistent, and the extent to which they apply to us or the banks that issue our cards, our clients or our third party service providers is at times unclear. Any failure to comply with applicable law either by us or by the card issuing banks, our client or our third party service providers, over which we have limited legal and practical control could result in restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties and the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to sell our products and services. See "Risk Factors" for additional discussion regarding the potential impacts of changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject and failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations. We continually monitor and enhance our compliance program to stay current with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. We also continue to implement policies and programs and to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current legal standards, as well as with new and changing legal requirements affecting particular services or the conduct of our business generally. Anti-Money Laundering Laws Our products and services are generally subject to federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar state laws. On an ongoing basis, these laws require us, among other things, to: report large cash transactions and suspicious activity; screen transactions against the U.S. government's watch-lists, such as the watch-list maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; prevent the processing of transactions to or from certain countries, individuals, nationals and entities; identify the dollar amounts loaded or transferred at any one time or over specified periods of time, which requires the aggregation of information over multiple transactions; gather and, in certain circumstances, report customer information; comply with consumer disclosure requirements; register or obtain licenses with state and federal agencies in the United States and seek registration of any retail distributors when necessary. 8 Anti-money laundering regulations are constantly evolving. We continuously monitor our compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and implement policies and procedures to make our business practices flexible, so we can comply with the most current legal requirements. We cannot predict how these future regulations might affect us. Complying with future regulation could be expensive or require us to change the way we operate our business. Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing Regulations We are not currently subject to money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations; however, we have plans to introduce products in the future that would be subject to such regulations. Currently, we believe that 39 U.S. jurisdictions would require us to obtain a license to operate a money transfer business. As a licensee, we would be subject to certain restrictions and requirements, including reporting, net worth and surety bonding requirements and requirements for regulatory approval of controlling stockholders, agent locations and consumer forms and disclosures. We would also be subject to inspection by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed, many of which conduct regular examinations. In addition, we would be required to maintain "permissible investments" in an amount equivalent to all "outstanding payment obligations." Escheatment Laws Unclaimed property laws of every U.S. jurisdiction require that we track certain information on our card products and services and that, if customer funds are unclaimed at the end of an applicable statutory abandonment period, the proceeds of the unclaimed property be remitted to the appropriate jurisdiction. Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws In the ordinary course of our business, we or our third party service providers collect certain types of data, which subjects us to certain privacy and information security laws in the United States, including, for example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, and other laws or rules designed to regulate consumer information and mitigate identity theft. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. These state and federal laws impose obligations with respect to the collection, processing, storage, disposal, use and disclosure of personal information, and require that financial institutions have in place policies regarding information privacy and security. In addition, under federal and certain state financial privacy laws, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies and practices for sharing nonpublic information with third parties, provide advance notice of any changes to our policies and, with limited exceptions, give consumers the right to prevent use of their nonpublic personal information and disclosure of it to unaffiliated third parties. Certain state laws may, in some circumstances, require us to notify affected individuals of security breaches of computer databases that contain their personal information. These laws may also require us to notify state law enforcement, regulators or consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach, as well as businesses and governmental agencies that own data. In order to comply with the privacy and information safeguard laws, we have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws evolve regularly, requiring us to adjust our compliance program on an ongoing basis and presenting compliance challenges. Bank Regulations All of the cards that we service are issued by a state-chartered bank. Thus, we are subject to the oversight of the regulators for, and certain laws applicable to, these card issuing banks. These banking laws require us, as a servicer to the banks that issue our cards, among other things, to undertake compliance actions similar to those described under " Anti-Money Laundering Laws" above and to comply with the privacy regulations promulgated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as discussed under " Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws" above. Consumer Protection Laws Certain products that we anticipate introducing in the future will likely be subject to additional state and federal consumer protection laws, including laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices, regulating electronic fund transfers and protecting consumer nonpublic information. Before we can introduce those products, we will have to develop appropriate procedures for compliance with these consumer protection laws. 9 Card Networks In order to provide our products and services, we, as well as the banks that issue our cards, must be registered with Visa and/or MasterCard, as well as any other networks that we desire to use, such as Discover, Pulse, NYCE and Star, and, as a result, are subject to card association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card association or network for certain acts or omissions. The banks that issue our cards are specifically registered as "members" of the Visa and/or MasterCard card networks. Visa and MasterCard set the standards with which we and the card issuing banks must comply. False Claims Laws and Other Fraud and Abuse Restrictions We provide claims processing and other transaction services to pharmaceutical companies that relate to, or directly involve, the reimbursement of pharmaceutical costs covered by Medicare, Medicaid, other federal healthcare programs and private payers. As a result of these aspects of our business, we may be subject to, or contractually required to comply with, state and federal laws that govern various aspects of the submission of healthcare claims for reimbursement and the receipt of payments for healthcare items or services. These laws generally prohibit an individual or entity from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payers that are false or fraudulent. False or fraudulent claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, failing to refund known overpayments, misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement, improper coding and billing for medically unnecessary goods and services. Many of these laws provide significant civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance and can be enforced by private individuals through whistleblower or qui tam actions. To avoid liability, providers and their contractors must, among other things, carefully and accurately code, complete and submit claims for reimbursement. From time to time, constituents in the healthcare industry, including us, may be subject to actions under the federal False Claims Act or other fraud and abuse provisions. We cannot guarantee that state and federal agencies will regard any billing errors we process as inadvertent or will not hold us responsible for any compliance issues related to claims we handle on behalf of providers and payers. Although we believe our editing processes are consistent with applicable reimbursement rules and industry practice, a court, enforcement agency or whistleblower could challenge these practices. We cannot predict the impact of any enforcement actions under the various false claims and fraud and abuse laws applicable to our operations. Even an unsuccessful challenge of our practices could cause adverse publicity and cause us to incur significant legal and related costs. Privacy and Security Standards under HIPAA or Other Laws. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 contains privacy regulations and the security regulations that apply to some of our operations. The privacy regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by entities subject to HIPAA. For example, the privacy regulations permit parties to use and disclose individually identifiable health information for treatment and to process claims for payment, but other uses and disclosures, such as marketing communications, require written authorization from the individual or must meet an exception specified under the privacy regulations. The privacy regulations also provide patients with rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used and disclosed. To the extent permitted by the privacy regulations, ARRA and our contracts with our customers, we may use and disclose individually identifiable health information to perform our services and for other limited purposes, such as creating de-identified information. Determining whether data has been sufficiently de-identified to comply with the privacy regulations and our contractual obligations may require complex factual and statistical analyses and may be subject to interpretation. The security regulations require certain entities to implement and maintain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is electronically transmitted or electronically stored. We have implemented and maintain policies and processes to assist us in complying with the privacy regulations, the security regulations and our contractual obligations. We cannot provide assurance regarding how these standards will be interpreted, enforced or applied to our operations. If we are unable to properly protect the privacy and security of health information entrusted to us, we could be subject to substantial penalties, damages and injunctive relief. In addition to HIPAA, numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable health information and healthcare provider information. In addition, some states are considering new laws and regulations that further protect the confidentiality, privacy and security of medical records or other types of medical information. In many cases, these state laws are not preempted by the HIPAA privacy regulations and may be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities. Further, the U.S. Congress and a number of states have considered or are considering prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the United States. 10 Patents and Trademarks We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secrets laws. In order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information, all of our employees and consultants have signed confidentiality and we enter into nondisclosure agreements with third parties. We cannot provide assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, however, will deter adequately infringement or misappropriation of those rights. Particularly given the international nature of the Internet, the rate of growth of the Internet and the ease of registering new domain names, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or take enforcement action. Employees and Independent Contractors As of March 3, 2020, we had seventy employees and independent contractors. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and believe all independent contractor and employment agreements relationships are satisfactory. We hire independent contractors on an as-needed basis, and we may retain additional employees and consultants during the next twelve months, including additional executive management personnel with substantial experience in development business. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to continue our current growth rate in future periods, and if our operating revenue growth slows, or our operating revenue declines, our business and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Our growth rates may decline in the future. In fiscal 2019, we experienced growth in our corporate incentives solution business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our current growth rate in future periods. In the near term, our continued growth depends in significant part on our ability, among other things, to enter new markets and to continue to attract new clients, and to retain our current clientele. Our continued growth also depends on our ability to develop and market other prepaid debit card products that can utilize the Paysign platform. As the prepaid financial services industry continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer products and services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete on the basis of price and to expend significant marketing, product development and other resources in order to remain competitive. Even if we are successful at increasing our operating revenues through our various initiatives and strategies, we will experience an inevitable decline in growth rates as our operating revenues increase to higher levels and we may also experience a decline in margins. If our operating revenue growth rates slow materially or decline, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, decrease investor confidence in our Company, and reduce the value of our common stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act and based upon the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO framework). Management is also responsible for reporting on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 11 We have identified control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses relating to: (i) management assessment of internal control over financial reporting and (ii) design, implementation and monitoring of information technology general controls. Additionally, a third material weakness cited by the auditors was that the Company lacked sufficient monitoring and disclosure controls when employing a part-time employee. See Item 9A.