ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION and RESULTS OF OPERATION. Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Forward Looking Statements). All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are Forward Looking Statements. In the normal course of our business, we, in an effort to help keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations, may from time-to-time issue certain statements, either in writing or orally, that contains or may contain Forward-Looking Statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such Forward Looking Statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Generally, these statements relate to business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits or other consequences of such plans or strategies, past and possible future, of acquisitions and projected or anticipated benefits from acquisitions made by or to be made by us, or projections involving anticipated revenues, earnings, levels of capital expenditures or other aspects of operating results. All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect the results of our proposed operations and whether Forward Looking Statements made by us ultimately prove to be accurate. Such important factors (Important Factors) and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed in this report, including those factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors. All prior and subsequent written and oral Forward Looking Statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Important Factors described below that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations as set forth in any Forward Looking Statement made by or on behalf of us. 29 Overview 3PEA International, Inc. is a vertically integrated provider of innovative prepaid card programs and processing services for corporate, consumer and government applications. Our payment solutions are utilized by our corporate customers as a means to increase customer loyalty, reduce administration costs and streamline operations. Public sector organizations can utilize the solutions to disburse public benefits or for internal payments. We market our prepaid debit card solutions under our PaySign brand. As we are a payment processor and debit card program manager, we derive our revenue from all stages of the debit card lifecycle. We provide a card processing platform consisting of proprietary systems and innovative software applications based on the unique needs of our programs. We have extended our processing business capabilities through our proprietary PaySign platform. We design and process prepaid programs that run on the platform through which our customers can define the services they wish to offer cardholders. Through the PaySign platform, we provide a variety of services including transaction processing, cardholder enrollment, value loading, cardholder account management, reporting, and customer service. The PaySign platform was built on modern cross-platform architecture and designed to be highly flexible, scalable and customizable. The platform has allowed 3PEA to significantly expand its operational capabilities by facilitating our entry into new markets within the payments space through its flexibility and ease of customization. The PaySign platform delivers cost benefits and revenue building opportunities to our partners. We have developed prepaid card programs for corporate and incentive rewards including, but not limited to healthcare reimbursement payments, pharmaceutical co-pay assistance, donor payments for source plasma and automobile dealership incentives. We are expanding our product offering to include additional corporate incentive products, payroll cards, general purpose re-loadable cards, travel cards, and expense reimbursement cards. Our cards are offered to end users through our relationships with bank issuers. We are a vertically integrated payment processor and debit card program manager offering innovative payment solutions to corporations, government agencies, universities and other organizations. Our payment solutions are utilized by our customers as a means to increase customer loyalty, reduce administration costs and streamline operations. We market our prepaid debit card solutions under our PaySign brand. As we are a payment processor and debit card program manager, we derive our revenue from all stages of the debit card lifecycle. These revenues can include fees from program set-up; customization and development; data processing and report generation; card production and fulfillment; transaction fees derived from card usage; inactivity fees; card replacement fees and program administration fees. We provide an in-house customer service center which includes live bi-lingual phone operators staffed 24/7, for incoming calls. We also provide in house Interactive Voice Response (IVR) and two way SMS messaging platforms. The Company divides prepaid cards into two general categories: corporate and consumer reloadable, and non-reloadable cards. Reloadable Cards: These types of cards are generally incentive, payroll or considered general purpose reloadable (GPR) cards. Payroll cards are issued to an employee by an employer to receive the direct deposit of their payroll. GPR cards can also be issued to a consumer at a retail location or mailed to a consumer after completing an on-line application. GPR cards can be reloaded multiple times with a consumers payroll, government benefit, a federal or state tax refund or through cash reload networks located at retail locations. Reloadable cards are generally open loop cards as described below. Non-Reloadable Cards: These are generally one-time use cards that are only active until the funds initially loaded to the card are spent. These types of cards are gift or incentive cards. These cards may be open loop or closed loop. Normally these types of cards are used for purchase of goods or services at retail locations and cannot be used to receive cash. 30 These prepaid cards may be open loop, closed loop or semi-closed loop. Open loop cards can be used to receive cash at ATM locations or purchase goods or services by PIN or signature at retail locations. These cards can be used virtually anywhere that the network brand (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, etc.)is accepted. Closed loop cards can only be used at a specific merchant. Semi-closed loop cards can be used at several merchants such as a shopping mall. The prepaid card market is one of the fastest growing segments of the payments industry in the U.S. This market has experienced significant growth in recent years due to consumers and merchants embracing improved technology, greater convenience, more product choices and greater flexibility. Prepaid cards have also proven to be an attractive alternative to traditional bank accounts for certain segments of the population, particularly those without, or who could not qualify for, a checking or savings account. We have developed prepaid card programs for healthcare reimbursement payments, pharmaceutical assistance, plasma donor remuneration, corporate and incentive rewards and expense reimbursement cards. We plan to expand our product offering to include payroll cards, general purpose re-loadable cards and travel cards. Our cards are offered to end users through our relationships with bank issuers. Our products and services are aimed at capitalizing on the growing demand for stored value and reloadable ATM/prepaid card financial products in a variety of market niches. Our proprietary platform is scalable and customizable, delivering cost benefits and revenue building opportunities to partners. We manage all aspects of the debit card lifecycle, from managing the card design and approval processes with banking partners and card associations, to production, packaging, distribution, and personalization. We also oversee inventory and security controls, renewals, lost and stolen card management and replacement. Currently, we are focusing our marketing efforts on the healthcare reimbursement market, pharmaceutical marketing or drug sampling market, source plasma donation payments and the corporate incentive card market targeting automotive and other market niches. As part of our platform expansion development process, we evaluate current and emerging technologies for applicability to our existing and future software platform. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in evaluation of various infrastructure components. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions, which we may not be able to develop internally within time and budget constraints. Our principal target markets for processing services include prepaid card issuers, retail and private-label issuers, small third-party processors, and small and mid-size financial institutions in the United States and in emerging international markets. The company has begun to devote more extensive resources to sales and marketing activities as we have added essential personnel to our marketing and sales department in late 2013. We sell our products directly to customers in the U.S. but may work with a small number of resellers and third parties in international markets to identify, sell and support targeted opportunities. We have also identified large scale opportunities in the European Union and are aggressively pursuing those opportunities. In order to expand into new markets, we will need to invest additional funds in technology improvements, sales and marketing expenses, and regulatory compliance costs. We are considering raising capital to enable us to diversify into new market verticals. If we do not raise new capital, we believe that we will still be able to expand into new markets using internally generated funds, but our expansion will not be as rapid. 31 Results of Operations In 2014 we increased our focus on sales while continuing to invest in our core infrastructure, platform development and the addition of essential personnel in order to allow us to successfully scale our business. To this end, we accomplished the following: Launched our PaySign brand of prepaid cards. The PaySign brand encompasses our prepaid card solutions for corporate incentives, payroll, public sector, pharmaceutical co-pay assistance source plasma donations, general spend reloadable, and other market niches. Increased our presence in the plasma donation payments space with the implementation of the PaySign solution for The Interstate Companies and B Positive National Blood Services. During 2014, we increased the number of plasma donation centers using our prepaid solution from 46 in December 31, 2013, to 78 as of December 31, 2014. We expect revenues from these centers to increase as they mature. Established an Advisory Board and announced that Alexander Goldberg, former President of Ford Motor Land Services Corporation, and Leonard Goodman, Director of Information Technologies at The Interstate Companies, joined the Board. Partnered with Haemonetics to Integrate our PaySign Connect Prepaid Card solution with Haemonetic's Donor Management System. Entered into a prepaid card agreement with Visa Inc. whereby we will exclusively issue Visa-branded prepaid cards for the PaySign brand of prepaid cards. The Board of Directors approved a 2,700,000 share repurchase plan whereby we acquired and retired 2,442,000 shares of common stock in November 2014 as part of a debt settlement totaling $666,000. Increased our gross profit margins from 35% in 2013 to 55% in 2014. Continued to provide additional card fulfillment services to our customers. Identified, researched and targeted large scale business opportunities in the European Union. Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $10,293,180, an increase of $3,985,289 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, when revenues were $6,307,891. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in our corporate incentive reward programs, specifically, our healthcare reimbursement payments, pharmaceutical co-pay assistance, and donor payments for source plasma. Many of these new corporate incentive reward programs have been launched under the PaySign platform which we believe will provide much higher profit margins. Along with our current programs we are servicing utilizing the PaySign platform, we plan to diversify into other product lines in 2015 such as corporate incentive card payment programs made to consumers or potential consumers as an incentive to or reward for purchasing products, and payments made to an employee or agent of a company as an incentive bonus. 32 Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $4,654,715, an increase of $551,035 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, when cost of revenues were $4,103,680. Our costs of revenues have increased slightly primarily due to an increase in new corporate incentive reward programs being serviced. Cost of revenues constituted approximately 45% and 65% of total revenues in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cost of revenues is comprised of transaction processing fees, data connectivity and data center expenses, network fees, bank fees, card production costs, customer service and program management expenses, application integration setup, and sales and commission expense. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5,638,465, an increase of $3,434,254 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, when gross profit was $2,204,211. Our overall gross profit percentage approximated 55% and 35% during the fiscal years 2014 and 2013 which is consistent with our overall expectations. We believe our profit margins will continue to improve in the future as we continue to pursue new corporate incentive reward programs utilizing our PaySign platform and marketing our products and services utilizing our internal sales and marketing team. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $2,715,316, an increase of $1,238,935 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, when selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,476,381. During 2014, we recognized approximately $600,000 in stock-based (non-cash) expenses primarily related to stock grants awarded in August 2012 which vest over a five year period. However, our management approved the acceleration of such vesting whereby all unvested portion would be fully vested as of December 31, 2014 which resulted in an increase in stock based expense of $426,000 compared to year ended December 31, 2013 which totaled $180,000. The remaining increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased staffing and technological expenses relating to launch of several new programs. We ramped up our investment in infrastructure and processes to be able to scale our business successfully. We also had begun to devote more resources to our internal sales and marketing team. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded operating income of $2,751,555, as compared to operating income of $669,818 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, and improvement of $2,081,737. Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $(141,515), an increase in net other income (expense) of $82,431 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 of other income (expenses) of $(59,084). The overall increase in net other income (expense) in 2014 is within our expectations for 2014. Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $2,610,484, an increase of $1,998,800 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, when we recorded net income of $611,684. The overall change in net income is attributable to the aforementioned factors. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash for our last two fiscal years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,082,535 $ (620,273 ) Net cash (used in) investing activities (527,912 ) (238,779 ) Net cash (used in) financing activities 305,106 13,380 Net increase in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents $ 2,859,729 $ (845,672 ) 33 Comparison of Fiscal 2014 and 2013 In fiscal 2014 and 2013, we financed our operations primarily through internally generated funds. Operating activities provided (used) $3,082,535 of cash in 2014, as compared to $(620,273) of cash provided in fiscal 2013. Major non-cash items that affected our cash flow from operations in 2014 were non-cash stock based expenses of $600,641 and depreciation and amortization of $171,594. Our operating assets and liabilities used $(299,740) of cash, which resulted from a decrease in our payables and accrued liabilities of $(604,586) and an increase in accounts receivable of $304,953. Investing activities used $(527,912) of cash in 2014, as compared to $(238,779) of cash used in 2013, all of which related in both years to platform expansion and the purchase of equipment used in our business. Financing activities provided $305,106 of cash in 2014 as compared to $13,380 of cash in 2013. Our cash provided by financing activities in 2014 primarily related to proceeds we received from borrowings during 2014, offset by payments on notes payable. Liquidity and Sources of Financing In both 2014 and 2013, our operations were focused on developing and launching our PaySign platform, infrastructure and processes to be able to scale our business successfully which was financed from operations. We believe that our available cash on hand at December 31, 2014 of $3,886,968 and revenues anticipated for 2015 will be sufficient to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements. At this time, we are not required to make any material estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Our estimates will be based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. Our estimates will be based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. 34