Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report on Form 10-K; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements; and exemptions from the requirements of holding nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have elected to take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and may elect to take advantage of other reduced reporting requirements in future filings. As a result, the information that we provide to our stockholders may be different from what you might receive from other public reporting companies in which you hold equity interests. 6 In addition, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of this exemption and, as a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that we can elect to opt out of the extended transition period at any time, which election is irrevocable. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest to occur of: (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.235 billion; (ii) the last day of 2024; (iii) the date that we become a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (referred to as the Exchange Act), which would occur if the market value of our common equity held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter; or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during any three-year period. Regulations Introduction We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of financial institutions we may work with. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing banks, could have a material impact on our operations. Our products and services are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: anti-money laundering and anti-bribery laws; money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations; escheatment laws; privacy and information safeguard laws; data and personal information protection; bank regulations; consumer protection laws; tax; environmental sustainability (including climate change); false claims laws and other fraud and abuse restrictions; and privacy and security standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) or other laws. 7 These laws are often evolving and sometimes ambiguous or inconsistent, and the extent to which they apply to us or the banks that issue our cards, our clients or our third-party service providers is at times unclear. Any failure to comply with applicable law either by us or by the card issuing banks, our client or our third-party service providers, over which we have limited legal and practical control could result in restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties and the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to sell our products and services. See "Risk Factors" for additional discussion regarding the potential impacts of changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject and failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations. We continually monitor and enhance our compliance program to stay current with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. We also continue to implement policies and programs and to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current legal standards, as well as with new and changing legal requirements affecting particular services or the conduct of our business generally. Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery Laws Our products and services are generally subject to federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar state laws. On an ongoing basis, these laws require us, among other things, to: report large cash transactions and suspicious activity; screen transactions against the U.S. governments watch-lists, such as the watch-list maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC); prevent the processing of transactions to or from certain countries, individuals, nationals and entities; identify the dollar amounts loaded or transferred at any one time or over specified periods of time, which requires the aggregation of information over multiple transactions; gather and, in certain circumstances, report customer information; comply with consumer disclosure requirements; comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations; and register or obtain licenses with state and federal agencies in the United States and seek registration of any retail distributors when necessary. Anti-money laundering regulations are constantly evolving. We continuously monitor our compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and implement policies and procedures to make our business practices flexible, so we can comply with the most current legal requirements. We cannot predict how these future regulations might affect us. Complying with future regulation could be expensive or require us to change the way we operate our business. Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing Regulations We are not currently subject to money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations; however, we have plans to introduce products in the future that would be subject to such regulations. Currently, we believe that 39 U.S. jurisdictions would require us to obtain a license to operate a money transfer business. As a licensee, we would be subject to certain restrictions and requirements, including reporting, net worth and surety bonding requirements and requirements for regulatory approval of controlling stockholders, agent locations and consumer forms and disclosures. We would also be subject to inspection by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed, many of which conduct regular examinations. In addition, we would be required to maintain "permissible investments" in an amount equivalent to all "outstanding payment obligations." 8 Escheatment Laws Unclaimed property laws of every U.S. state require that certain information be tracked on card programs. If customer funds are unclaimed at the end of an applicable statutory abandonment period, the proceeds of the unclaimed property must be remitted to the appropriate state. Analysis of facts and circumstances of each card program under state unclaimed property laws determines whether funds under such programs are escheatable. Privacy and Data Protection Regulation In the ordinary course of our business, we or our third-party service providers collect certain types of data, which subjects us to certain privacy and information security laws in the United States, including, for example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, and other laws or rules designed to regulate consumer information and mitigate identity theft. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. These state and federal laws impose obligations with respect to the collection, processing, storage, disposal, use and disclosure of personal information, and require that financial institutions have in place policies regarding information privacy and security. In addition, under federal and certain state financial privacy laws, we must provide notice to consumers of our policies and practices for sharing nonpublic information with third parties, provide advance notice of any changes to our policies and, with limited exceptions, give consumers the right to prevent use of their nonpublic personal information and disclosure of it to unaffiliated third parties. Certain state laws may, in some circumstances, require us to notify affected individuals of security breaches of computer databases that contain their personal information. These laws may also require us to notify state law enforcement, regulators or consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach, as well as businesses and governmental agencies that own data. In order to comply with the privacy and information safeguard laws, we have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws evolve regularly, requiring us to adjust our compliance program on an ongoing basis and presenting compliance challenges. Bank Regulations All of the cards that we service are issued by a state-chartered bank. Thus, we are subject to the oversight of the regulators for, and certain laws applicable to, these card issuing banks. These banking laws require us, as a servicer to the banks that issue our cards, among other things, to undertake compliance actions similar to those described under "Anti-Money Laundering Laws" above and to comply with the privacy regulations promulgated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as discussed under "Privacy and Information Safeguard Laws" above. Consumer Protection Laws Certain products that we offer are subject to additional state and federal consumer protection laws, including laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices, regulating electronic fund transfers and protecting consumer nonpublic information. As such, we have developed appropriate procedures for compliance with these consumer protection laws. Card Networks In order to provide our products and services, we, as well as the banks that issue our cards, must be registered with Visa and/or MasterCard, as well as any other networks that we desire to use, such as Interlink, Plus, Maestro, Cirrus, Discover and Pulse, and, as a result, are subject to card association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card association or network for certain acts or omissions. The banks that issue our cards are specifically registered as "members" of the card networks. The card networks set the standards with which we and the card issuing banks must comply. 9 Environmental Sustainability Climate-related events, including extreme weather events and natural disasters and their effect on critical infrastructure in the U.S. could have similar adverse effects on our operations, customers or third-party suppliers. Furthermore, our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders have begun to consider how corporations are addressing environmental, social and governance ("ESG") issues. Government regulators, investors, customers and the general public are increasingly focused on ESG practices and disclosures, and views about ESG are diverse and rapidly changing. These shifts in investing priorities may result in adverse effects on the trading price of the Company's common stock if investors determine that the Company has not made sufficient progress on ESG matters. Furthermore, developing and acting on initiatives within the scope of ESG, and collecting, measuring and reporting ESG-related information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming, and are subject to evolving reporting standards and/or contractual obligations. We could also face potential negative ESG-related publicity in traditional media or social media if shareholders or other stakeholders determine that we have not adequately considered or addressed ESG matters. Shareholders are increasingly submitting proposals related to a variety of ESG issues to public companies, and we may receive such proposals in the future. Such proposals may not be in the long-term interests of the Company or our stockholders and may divert managements attention away from operational matters or create the impression that our practices are inadequate. False Claims Laws and Other Fraud and Abuse Restrictions We provide claims processing and other transaction services to pharmaceutical companies that relate to, or directly involve, the reimbursement of pharmaceutical costs covered by Medicare, Medicaid, other federal healthcare programs and private payers. As a result of these aspects of our business, we may be subject to, or contractually required to comply with, state and federal laws that govern various aspects of the submission of healthcare claims for reimbursement and the receipt of payments for healthcare items or services. These laws generally prohibit an individual or entity from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent. False or fraudulent claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, failing to refund known overpayments, misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement, improper coding and billing for medically unnecessary goods and services. Many of these laws provide significant civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance and can be enforced by private individuals through whistleblower or qui tam actions. To avoid liability, providers and their contractors must, among other things, carefully and accurately code, complete and submit claims for reimbursement. From time to time, participants in the healthcare industry, including us, may be subject to actions under the federal False Claims Act or other fraud and abuse provisions. We cannot guarantee that state and federal agencies will regard any billing errors we process as inadvertent or will not hold us responsible for any compliance issues related to claims we handle on behalf of providers and payers. Although we believe our editing processes are consistent with applicable reimbursement rules and industry practice, a court, enforcement agency or whistleblower could challenge these practices. We cannot predict the impact of any enforcement actions under the various false claims and fraud and abuse laws applicable to our operations. Even an unsuccessful challenge of our practices could cause adverse publicity and cause us to incur significant legal and related costs. Privacy and Security Standards under HIPAA or Other Laws. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 contains privacy regulations and the security regulations that apply to some of our operations. The privacy regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by entities subject to HIPAA. For example, the privacy regulations permit parties to use and disclose individually identifiable health information for treatment and to process claims for payment, but other uses and disclosures, such as marketing communications, require written authorization from the individual or must meet an exception specified under the privacy regulations. The privacy regulations also provide patients with rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used and disclosed. To the extent permitted by the privacy regulations from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and our contracts with our customers, we may use and disclose individually identifiable health information to perform our services and for other limited purposes, such as creating de-identified information. Determining whether data has been sufficiently de-identified to comply with the privacy regulations and our contractual obligations may require complex factual and statistical analyses and may be subject to interpretation. The security regulations require certain entities to implement and maintain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is electronically transmitted or electronically stored. We have implemented and maintain policies and processes to assist us in complying with the privacy regulations, the security regulations and our contractual obligations. We cannot provide assurance regarding how these standards will be interpreted, enforced or applied to our operations. If we are unable to properly protect the privacy and security of health information entrusted to us, we could be subject to substantial penalties, damages and injunctive relief. 10 In addition to HIPAA, numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable health information and healthcare provider information. In addition, some states are considering new laws and regulations that further protect the confidentiality, privacy and security of medical records or other types of medical information. In many cases, these state laws are not preempted by the HIPAA privacy regulations and may be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities. Further, the U.S. Congress and a number of states have considered or are considering prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the United States. Patents and Trademarks We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secrets laws. In order to limit access to and disclosure of our intellectual property and proprietary information, all of our employees and consultants have signed confidentiality and we enter into nondisclosure agreements with third parties. We cannot provide assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, however, will deter adequately infringement or misappropriation of those rights. Particularly given the international nature of the Internet, the rate of growth of the Internet and the ease of registering new domain names, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or proprietary information, or to take enforcement action. Employees and Independent Contractors As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately one hundred ten employees and independent contractors. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and believe all independent contractor and employment agreement relationships are satisfactory. We hire independent contractors on an as-needed basis, and we may retain additional employees and consultants during the next twelve months, including additional executive management personnel with substantial experience in business development. Available Information Our internet address is www.paysign.com. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to grow our business in future periods, and if our revenue growth slows, or our revenues decline further, our business and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Our growth rates may decline in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our business in future periods. In the near term, our growth depends in significant part on our ability, among other things, to enter new markets and to continue to attract new clients, and to retain our current clientele. Our growth also depends on our ability to develop and market other prepaid card products that can utilize the Paysign platform. 11 As the prepaid financial services industry continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer products and services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete on the basis of price and to expend significant marketing, product development and other resources in order to remain competitive. Even if we are successful at increasing our operating revenues through our various initiatives and strategies, we will experience an inevitable decline in growth rates as our operating revenues increase to higher levels and we may also experience a decline in margins. If our operating revenue growth rates slow materially or decline, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and failure by us or business partners to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and failure by us or our business partners to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could negatively impact our business. We are subject to a wide range of federal and other state laws and regulations, which are described under "Business Regulations" above. In particular, our products and services are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to protect consumers and to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, and ensuring compliance with them is difficult and costly. For example, with increasing frequency, federal and state regulators are holding businesses like ours to higher standards of training, monitoring and compliance, including monitoring for possible violations of laws by the businesses that participate in our reload network. Failure by us or those businesses to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our business, or federal or state actions, any of which could significantly harm our reputation with consumers and other network participants, banks that issue our cards and regulators, and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting our business may impose costly compliance burdens and negatively impact our business. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, card association rules or other industry standards that affect our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. For example, more stringent anti-money laundering regulations could require the collection and verification of more information from our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. A number of regulations impacting the credit card industry were recently implemented. Additional changes may require us to incur significant expenses to redevelop our products. Also, failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations or standards to which we are subject, including with respect to privacy and data use and security, could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation. A data security breach could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation, and could adversely affect our reputation and operating results. We, the banks that issue our cards and our third-party service providers receive, transmit and store confidential customer and other information in connection with our products and services. The encryption software and the other technologies we and our partners use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data security breaches. The risk of unauthorized circumvention of our security measures has been heightened by advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers. The banks that issue our cards, our clients and our third-party service providers also may experience similar security breaches involving the receipt, transmission and storage of our confidential customer and other information. Improper access to our or these third parties' systems or databases could result in the theft, publication, deletion or modification of confidential customer and other information. 12 A data security breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our products and services, reputational damage and claims or regulatory actions against us. If we are sued in connection with any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted and costly litigation. If unsuccessful in defending that litigation, we might be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues and profitability. We would also likely have to pay (or indemnify the banks that issue our cards for) fines, penalties and/or other assessments imposed by card networks as a result of any data security breach. Further, a significant data security breach could lead to additional regulation, which could impose new and costly compliance obligations. In addition, a data security breach at one of the banks that issue our cards or our third-party service providers could result in significant reputational harm to us and cause the use and acceptance of our cards to decline, either of which could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and future growth prospects. We may have deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, decrease investor confidence in our Company, and reduce the value of our common stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act and based upon the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management is also responsible for reporting on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that are not promptly identified and remediated may adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, decrease investor confidence in our Company, and reduce the value of our common stock. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate previously reported control deficiencies that we have identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other deficiencies or weaknesses in the future. Security and privacy breaches of our electronic transactions may damage customer relations and inhibit our growth. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain products we offer require that we store personal information, including birth dates, addresses, bank account numbers, credit card information, social security numbers and merchant account numbers. If we are unable to protect this information, or if consumers perceive that we are unable to protect this information, our business and the growth of the electronic commerce market in general could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: cause our customers to lose confidence in our services; deter consumers from using our services; harm our reputation; require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations; expose us to liability; increase expenses related to remediation costs; and decrease market acceptance of electronic commerce transactions and prepaid use. 13 Although management believes that we have utilized proven systems designed for robust data security and integrity in electronic transactions, our use of these applications may be insufficient to address changing technological or market conditions and the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows have been, and are likely to continue to be, negatively impacted. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, which started in late 2019 and reached the United States in early 2020, continues to impact the economy of the United States and the rest of the world. While the direct disruption appears to have abated due to the availability of vaccines and other factors, the ultimate duration and severity of the pandemic remain uncertain, particularly given the development of new variants that continue to spread, and the economic repercussions are still manifesting themselves. The COVID-19 outbreak caused plasma center closures, and the stimulus packages signed into law during 2020 and 2021 reduced the incentive for individuals to donate plasma for supplementary income. Additionally, labor shortages at plasma donation centers and restrictions preventing Mexican nationals with tourist visas from being compensated for donating plasma, have further impacted donations. Those developments have had an adverse impact on the Companys historical results of operations. On September 16, 2022, the United States District Court issued a preliminary injunction preventing the United States Customs and Border Protection from continuing to enforce its ban on plasma donations by Mexican nationals. Since then, we have seen an increase in donation activity from Mexican nationals, in our plasma donation centers along the U.S.-Mexico border. Additionally, inflationary pressures for food, gasoline, rent, and other products and services appear to be driving individuals back into the plasma donation centers based upon the increase we experienced in the number of loads per average donation center in the second half of 2022 as compared to all preceding quarters in 2022 and 2021. While we remain cautiously optimistic and have seen improvements in donation activity and our operating results on an aggregated basis, we cannot foresee what potential issues may impact our operating results as new COVID-19 variants continue to evolve. That being said, President Biden recently announced that the COVID-19 national emergency and public health emergency declarations will end on May 11, 2023, as most of the world has returned closer to normalcy. Given the remaining uncertainty around the extent and timing of the potential future spread or mitigation of COVID-19 and variants, management cannot at this time estimate with reasonable accuracy COVID-19s further impact on the Companys results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We believe that our existing competitors have longer operating histories, are substantially larger than we are, may already have or could develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer, develop or introduce a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies than we do to achieve broader brand recognition, customer awareness and retail penetration. We may also face price competition that results in decreases in the purchase and use of our products and services. To stay competitive, we may have to increase the incentives that we offer to our marketing partners and decrease the prices of our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on relationships with card issuing banks to conduct our business, and our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to maintain these relationships or we maintain them under new terms that are less favorable to us. Our relationships with various banks is currently, and will be for the foreseeable future, a critical component of our ability to conduct our business and to maintain our revenue and expense structure, because we are currently unable to issue our own cards. If we lose or do not maintain existing banking relationships, we would incur significant switching and other costs and expenses and we and users of our products and services could be significantly affected, creating contingent liabilities for us. As a result, the failure to maintain adequate banking relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our agreement with the bank that issues our cards provide for cost and expense allocations between the parties. Changes in the costs and expenses that we have to bear under these relationships could have a material impact on our operating expenses. In addition, we may be unable to maintain adequate banking relationships or renew our agreements with the banks that currently issue our cards under terms at least as favorable to us as those existing before renewal. 14 We receive important services from third-party vendors, and replacing them could entail unexpected integration costs. Some services relating to our business, including network connectivity and gateway services are outsourced to third-party vendors. All of our vendors could be replaced with competitors if our vendor terminated our contract or went out of business. However, in some cases replacing a vendor would entail one-time integration costs to connect our systems to the successors systems, and could result in less advantageous contract terms for the same service, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in credit card association or other network rules or standards set by Visa and MasterCard, or changes in card association and debit network fees or products or interchange rates, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We and the banks that issue our cards are subject to Visa, Interlink, Plus, MasterCard, Maestro, Cirrus, Discover and Pulse association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for acts or omissions by us or businesses that work with us. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any of the banks that issue our cards or any changes in card association or other debit network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, card networks increase the organization and/or processing fees that they charge, which could increase our operating expenses, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, a portion of our operating revenues is derived from interchange fees (i.e., transaction fees paid by the merchant). The amount of interchange revenues that we earn is highly dependent on the interchange rates that the card networks set and adjust from time to time. Interchange rates for certain products and certain issuing banks declined significantly as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Bill. If interchange rates decline further, whether due to actions by the card networks or future legislation or regulation, we would likely need to change our fee structure to compensate for lost interchange revenues. To the extent we increase the pricing of our products and services, we might find it more difficult to acquire consumers and to maintain or grow card usage and customer retention. We also might have to discontinue certain products or services. As a result, our operating revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property or may be subject to infringement claims. In the rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our products and technology infringe upon another partys proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third partys patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Any claim from third parties may result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. As of the date of this filing, we had not received any notice or claim of infringement from any party. 15 The market for electronic commerce services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough for us to maintain profitability. If the number of electronic commerce transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue as projected to adopt our products and services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management believes future growth in the electronic commerce market will be driven by the cost, convenience, ease of use and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our products and services. If we do not respond to rapid technological change or changes in industry standards, our products and services could become obsolete and we could lose our customers. If competitors introduce new products and services, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic commerce industry is changing rapidly. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. Changes in the Bank Secrecy Act and/or the USA PATRIOT Act could impede our ability to circulate cards that can be easily loaded or issued. Our current compliance program and screening process for the distribution and/or sale of prepaid card products is designed to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (the USA PATRIOT Act). These regulations require financial institutions to obtain and confirm information related to their respective cardholders. If the BSA and/or the USA PATRIOT Act or subsequent legislation increases the level of scrutiny that we must apply to our cardholders and customers, it may be costly or impractical for us to continue to profitably issue and load cards for our customers. Internal processing errors could result in our failing to appropriately reflect transactions in customer accounts. In the event of a system failure that goes undetected for a substantial period of time, we could allow transactions on blocked accounts, confirm false authorizations, fail to deduct charges from accounts or fail to detect systematic fraud or abuse. Errors or failures of this nature could adversely impact our operations, our credibility and our financial standing. Our business is dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of computer network systems and data centers. Our ability to provide reliable service to our clients and cardholders depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers as well as those of our third-party service providers. Our business involves movement of large sums of money, processing of large numbers of transactions and management of the data necessary to do both. Our success depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money. We rely on the ability of our employees, systems and processes and those of the banks that issue our cards, our third-party service providers to process and facilitate these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In the event of a breakdown, a catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), a security breach or malicious attack, an improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or processes, or those of our vendors, or an improper action by our employees, agents or third-party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. The measures we have taken, including the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful, and we may experience other problems unrelated to system failures. We may also experience software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, any of which could harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. 16 The soundness of other institutions and companies could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in loading and purchasing transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and failure of other institutions and companies, our card issuing banks and distributors that carry our prepaid card products. As such, we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more of these institutions or companies could lead to losses or defaults by us or other institutions. Losses related to these defaults or failures could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additional equity or debt financing may be dilutive to existing stockholders or impose terms that are unfavorable to us or our existing stockholders. We may raise capital in order to provide working capital for our expansion into other products and services using our payments platform. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve arrangements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences that are not favorable to us or our current stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies and products or grant unfavorable license terms. We depend on key personnel and could be harmed by the loss of their services because of the limited number of qualified people in our industry. Because of our small size, we require the continued service and performance of our management team, sales and technology employees, all of whom we consider to be key employees. Competition for highly qualified employees in the financial services and healthcare industry is intense. Our success will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to attract, train, and retain highly skilled directors, officers, management, business, financial, legal, marketing, sales, and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of such people. In addition, we may not be able to retain our current key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel and our failure to attract additional highly qualified personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations and provide service to our customers. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, develop, incentivize and retain key personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, develop, incentivize and retain key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales, marketing and program and technology personnel. We must motivate and retain existing personnel and also attract, source, hire, develop and retain highly-qualified employees. We may experience difficulty fully integrating our newly-hired personnel, which may adversely affect our business. Competition for qualified management, sales, marketing and program and technology personnel can be intense. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our top management and employees. If we fail to attract, integrate, incentivize and retain key personnel, our ability to manage and grow our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at a price higher than what was paid. The market for our common stock is highly volatile. In 2022, our stock price fluctuated between $1.24 and $3.20. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or us, changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors products and services, changes in product mix, or changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates. 17 If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our common stock, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We expect that the trading price for our common stock will be affected by any research or reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may elect to cover us or our business downgrade their evaluations of our common stock, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our common stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will likely receive a return on your investment in our common stock only if the market price of our common stock increases. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our total shares of common stock outstanding and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own, as of March 17, 2023, approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise a controlling influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant influence over our management and policies for the foreseeable future. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, these stockholders, some of which have representatives sitting on our board of directors, could use their voting control to maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes of control of our company, or support or reject other management and board of director proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. We have 52,464,932 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 17, 2023, assuming no exercise of outstanding options or unvested restricted stock awards. None of the shares of common stock are subject to any lock-up agreements, and all are eligible for sale, subject to registration under the Securities Act and in some cases to volume and other restrictions imposed by Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or even the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company. We may not have sufficient personnel for our financial reporting responsibilities, which may result in the untimely close of our books and records and delays in the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures. As a registered public company, we have experienced an increase in legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, has imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, two putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, which could require our management to devote significant time to defending. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information. 18 If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC and other regulatory authorities. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our common stock, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the timing and volume of purchases, use and reloads of our prepaid cards and related products and services; the timing and success of new product or service introductions by us or our competitors; seasonality in the purchase or use of our products and services; reductions in the level of interchange rates that can be charged; fluctuations in customer retention rates; changes in the mix of products and services that we sell; changes in the mix of retail distributors through which we sell our products and services; the timing of commencement, renegotiation or termination of relationships with significant third party service providers; changes in our or our competitors' pricing policies or sales terms; the timing of commencement and termination of major advertising campaigns; the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of complementary businesses; the timing of costs of any major litigation to which we are a party; the amount and timing of operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; our ability to control costs, including third-party service provider costs; volatility in the trading price of our common stock, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expenses or fluctuations in the valuations of vesting equity; and changes in the regulatory environment affecting the banking or electronic payments industries generally or prepaid financial services specifically. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We have an operating lease for office space at 2615 St. Rose Parkway, Henderson, Nevada 89052. The lease will expire in 2030 and allows for two optional extensions of 5 years each. Lease payments are approximately $58,000 per month. We believe that our properties are adequate and suitable for us to conduct business in the future. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. From time to time, we may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. The Company has been named as a defendant in three complaints filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada: Yilan Shi v. Paysign, Inc. et. al., filed on March 19, 2020 (Shi), Lorna Chase v. Paysign, Inc. et. al., filed on March 25, 2020 (Chase), and Smith & Duvall v. Paysign, Inc. et. al., filed on April 2, 2020 (collectively, the Complaints or Securities Class Action). Smith & Duvall v. Paysign, Inc. et. al. was voluntarily dismissed on May 21, 2020. On May 18, 2020, the Shi plaintiffs and another entity called the Paysign Investor Group each filed a motion to consolidate the remaining Shi and Chase actions and to be appointed lead plaintiff. The Complaints are putative class actions filed on behalf of a class of persons who acquired the Companys common stock from March 19, 2019 through March 31, 2020, inclusive. The Complaints generally allege that the Company, Mark R. Newcomer, and Mark Attinger violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and that Messrs. Newcomer and Attinger violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, by making materially false or misleading statements, or failing to disclose material facts, regarding the Companys internal control over financial reporting and its financial statements. The Complaints seek class action certification, compensatory damages, and attorneys fees and costs. On December 2, 2020, the Court consolidated Shi and Chase as In re Paysign, Inc. Securities Litigation and appointed the Paysign Investor Group as lead plaintiff. On January 12, 2021, Plaintiffs filed an Amended Complaint in the consolidated action. Defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Amended Complaint on March 15, 2021, which Plaintiffs opposed via an opposition brief filed on April 29, 2021, to which Defendants replied on June 1, 2021. On February 9, 2023, the Court granted in part and denied in part Defendants Motion to Dismiss. As of the date of this filing, Paysign cannot give any meaningful estimate of likely outcome or damages. The Company has also been named as a nominal defendant in two stockholder derivative actions in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada. The first derivative action is entitled Andrzej Toczek, derivatively on behalf of Paysign, Inc. v. Mark R. Newcomer, et al. and was filed on September 17, 2020. This action alleges violations of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and waste, largely in connection with the failure to correct information technology controls over financial reporting alleged in the Securities Class Action, thereby causing the Company to face exposure in the Securities Class Action. The complaint also alleges insider trading violations against certain individual defendants. On December 16, 2020, the Court approved a stipulation staying the action until the Court in the consolidated Securities Class Action issues a ruling on the Motion to Dismiss. The second derivative action is entitled John K. Gray, derivatively on behalf of Paysign, Inc. v. Mark Attinger, et al. and was filed on May 9, 2022. This action involves the same alleged conduct raised in the Toczek action and asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty in connection with financial reporting, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged insider trading against certain individual defendants, and unjust enrichment. On June 3, 2022, the Court approved a stipulation staying the action until the Court in the consolidated Securities Class Action issues a ruling on the Motion to Dismiss. The Company anticipates filing motions to dismiss given the ruling on the Motion to Dismiss in the consolidated Securities Class Action. As of the date of this filing, Paysign cannot give any meaningful estimate of likely outcome or damages. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 20 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol PAYS. The following table summarizes the low and high closing prices for our common stock for each of the calendar quarters of 2022 and 2021. 2022 2021 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 2.50 $ 1.80 $ 5.69 $ 3.80 Second Quarter 2.04 1.24 4.69 2.87 Third Quarter 3.20 1.53 3.72 2.34 Fourth Quarter 3.01 2.11 2.99 1.37 There were approximately 10,907 shareholders of record of the common stock as of December 31, 2022. The shares were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Dividend Policy We have not declared any cash dividends on our common stock during our fiscal years ended on December 31, 2022 or 2021. Our Board of Directors has made no determination to date to declare cash dividends during the foreseeable future, but is not likely to do so. There are no restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers During the quarter ended December 31, 2022, we did not purchase any shares of our common stock. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION and RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 21 Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Forward-Looking Statements). All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are Forward-Looking Statements. These Forward-Looking Statements are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business and our industry. Words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," propose, "may," and other similar expressions identify Forward-Looking statements. In the normal course of our business, we, in an effort to help keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations, may from time-to-time issue certain statements, either in writing or orally, that contain, or may contain, Forward-Looking Statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such Forward-Looking Statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, estimates, forecasts, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are Forward-Looking Statements. These Forward-Looking Statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the Forward-Looking Statements. Such important factors (Important Factors) and other factors are disclosed in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II - Item 1A. Risk Factors. All prior and subsequent written and oral Forward-Looking Statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Important Factors described below that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations as set forth in any Forward-Looking Statement made by or on behalf of us. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these Forward-Looking Statements, which relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these Forward-Looking Statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof. You should refer to and carefully review the information in future documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview Paysign, Inc. (the Company, Paysign, we or our), headquartered in Nevada, was incorporated on August 24, 1995, and trades under the symbol PAYS on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Paysign is a vertically integrated provider of prepaid card products and processing services for corporate, consumer and government applications. Our payment solutions are utilized by our corporate customers as a means to increase customer loyalty, increase patient adherence rates, reduce administration costs and streamline operations. Public sector organizations can utilize our payment solutions to disburse public benefits or for internal payments. We market our prepaid card solutions under our Paysign brand. As we are a payment processor and prepaid card program manager, we derive our revenue from all stages of the prepaid card lifecycle. We provide a card processing platform consisting of proprietary systems and software applications based on the unique needs of our clients. We have extended our processing business capabilities through our proprietary Paysign platform. Through the Paysign platform, we provide a variety of services including transaction processing, cardholder enrollment, value loading, cardholder account management, reporting, and customer service. The Paysign platform was built on modern cross-platform architecture and designed to be highly flexible, scalable and customizable. The platforms flexibility and ease of customization has allowed us to expand our operational capabilities by facilitating our entry into new markets within the payments space. The Paysign platform delivers cost benefits and revenue building opportunities to our partners. We have developed prepaid card programs for corporate incentive and rewards including, but not limited to, consumer rebates and rewards, donor compensation, clinical trials, healthcare reimbursement payments and pharmaceutical payment assistance. We have expanded our product offerings to include additional corporate incentive products and demand deposit accounts accessible with a debit card. In the third quarter of 2022 we expanded our prepaid product offering to include payroll cards and in the fourth quarter of 2022 we expanded our prepaid product offering to include retail disbursements and prepaid gift cards. In the future, we expect to further expand our product offerings into other prepaid card offerings such as travel cards and expense reimbursement cards. Our cards are sponsored by our issuing bank partners. 22 Our revenues include fees generated from cardholder fees, interchange, card program management fees, transaction claims processing fees, and settlement income. Revenue from cardholder fees, interchange, card program management fees, and transaction claims processing fees is recorded when the performance obligation is fulfilled. Settlement income is recorded at the expiration of the card program. We have two categories for our prepaid debit cards: (1) corporate and consumer reloadable cards, and (2) non-reloadable cards. Reloadable Cards: These types of cards are generally classified as payroll or considered general purpose reloadable (GPR) cards. Payroll cards are issued by an employer to an employee in order to allow the employee to access payroll amounts that are deposited into an account linked to their card. GPR cards can also be issued to a consumer at a retail location or mailed to a consumer after completing an on-line application. GPR cards can be reloaded multiple times with a consumers payroll, government benefit, a federal or state tax refund or through cash reload networks located at retail locations. Reloadable cards are generally open-loop cards as described below. Non-Reloadable Cards: These are generally one-time use cards that are only active until the funds initially loaded to the card are spent. These types of cards are generally used as gift or incentive cards. Normally these types of cards are used for the purchase of goods or services at retail locations and cannot be used to receive cash. Both reloadable and non-reloadable cards may be open-loop, closed-loop, or restricted-loop. Open-loop cards can be used to receive cash at ATM locations by PIN; or purchase goods or services by PIN or signature at retail locations virtually anywhere that the network brand (American Express, Discover, Mastercard, Visa, etc.) is accepted. Closed-loop cards can only be used at a specific merchant. Restricted-loop cards can be used at several merchants, or a defined group of merchants, such as all merchants at a specific shopping mall. The prepaid card market in the U.S. has experienced significant growth in recent years due to consumers and merchants embracing improved technology, greater convenience, more product choices and greater flexibility. Prepaid cards have also proven to be an attractive alternative to traditional bank accounts for certain segments of the population, particularly those without, or who could not qualify for, a checking or savings account. We manage all aspects of the prepaid card lifecycle, from managing the card design and approval processes with partners and networks, to production, packaging, distribution, and personalization. We also oversee inventory and security controls, renewals, lost and stolen card management, and replacement. We deploy a fully staffed, in-house customer service department which utilizes bilingual customer service representatives, Interactive Voice Response, and two-way short message service messaging and text alerts. Currently, we are focusing our marketing efforts on corporate incentive and expense prepaid card products in various market verticals including but not limited to general corporate expense, healthcare related markets including co-pay assistance, clinical trials and donor compensation, loyalty rewards, and incentive cards. As part of our continuing platform expansion process, we evaluate current and emerging technologies for applicability to our existing and future software platform. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in evaluation of various infrastructure components. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions, which we may not be able to develop internally within time and budget constraints. Our principal target markets for processing services include prepaid card issuers, retail and private-label issuers, small third-party processors, and small and mid-size financial institutions in the United States and Mexico. 23 We have devoted more extensive resources to sales and marketing activities as we have added essential personnel to our marketing and sales team. We market our Paysign payment solutions through direct marketing by the Companys sales team. Our primary market focus is on companies that require a streamlined payment solution for rewards, rebates, payment assistance, and other payments to their customers, employees, agents and others. To reach these markets, we focus our sales efforts on direct contact with our target market and attendance at various industry specific conferences. We may, at times, utilize independent contractors who make direct sales and are paid commissions and/or restricted stock awards. We market our Paysign Premier product through existing communication channels to a targeted segment of our existing cardholders, as well as to a broad group of individuals, ranging from non-banked to fully banked consumers with a focus on long term users of our product. In 2023, we plan to continue to invest additional funds in technology improvements, sales and marketing, customer service, and regulatory compliance. From time to time, we evaluate raising capital to enable us to diversify into new market verticals. If we do not raise new capital, we believe that we will still be able to expand into new vertical markets using internally generated funds. 2022 Year Milestones Grew to approximately 5.3 million cardholders and 550 card programs as of December 31, 2022. Year over year revenue increased 29.1%. Added 79 net new Plasma programs, launched 7 net new Pharma programs, and added 15 net new Other prepaid programs. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results: Year ended December 31, Variance 2022 2021 $ % Revenues Plasma industry $ 34,737,640 $ 25,918,150 $ 8,819,490 34.0% Pharma industry 3,007,140 3,361,869 (354,729 ) (10.6% ) Other 288,887 184,830 104,057 56.3% Total revenues 38,033,667 29,464,849 8,568,818 29.1% Cost of revenues 17,079,069 14,753,042 2,326,027 15.8% Gross profit 20,954,598 14,711,807 6,242,791 42.4% Gross margin % 55.1% 49.9% Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative 17,700,651 14,953,322 2,747,329 18.4% Depreciation and amortization 2,909,612 2,497,918 411,694 16.5% Total operating expenses 20,610,263 17,451,240 3,159,023 18.1% Income (loss) from operations $ 344,335 $ (2,739,433 ) $ 3,083,768 N/M Net income (loss) $ 1,027,775 $ (2,721,334 ) $ 3,749,109 N/M Net margin % 2.7% (9.2% ) 24 The increase in total revenues of $8,568,818 for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year consisted of a $8,819,490 increase in Plasma revenue, a reduction of $354,729 in Pharma revenue, and a $104,057 increase in Other revenue. The increase in Plasma revenue was primarily due to an increase in plasma locations, plasma donations and dollars loaded to card as individuals looked for opportunities to supplement their income to combat inflationary pressures on gas, rent, and groceries and Mexican nationals were once again allowed to cross the border to donate plasma. The reduction in Pharma revenue was primarily due to pharma prepaid contracts ending, offset by the growth and launch of new pharma copay programs. Of the $3,007,140 Pharma industry revenue recognized in 2022, Pharma prepaid accounted for $1,526,180 and Pharma copay accounted for $1,480,960. This compares to 2021 Pharma prepaid revenues of $2,749,531 and Pharma copay revenues of $612,338. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $2,326,027 compared to the same period in the prior year. Cost of revenues is comprised of transaction processing fees, data connectivity and data center expenses, network fees, bank fees, card production costs, customer service, program management, application integration setup, and sales and commission expense. Cost of revenues increased primarily due to the increase in our Plasma business as many of the costs associated with this business are variable in nature as they are provided by third-parties who charge us based on the number of transactions that occur during the period. In addition, year over year growth in our Pharma copay business contributed to higher costs as network and commission costs associated with this business are higher than our Pharma prepaid business. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $6,242,791 compared to the prior year resulting primarily from the increase in revenue and cost of sales described above. The increase in gross margin to 55.1% versus 49.9% compared to the same period in the prior year resulted from operating leverage in our Plasma business, offset by the mix of products in our Pharma business as we transition from our higher margin prepaid business and related settlement income to our lower margin copay business, and the launch of Other prepaid programs in the month of December 2022 which have yet to have had time to mature. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $2,747,329 or 18.4% compared to the prior year and consisted primarily of an increase in technologies and telecom of $975,000, staffing and compensation of $873,000, travel and entertainment of $170,000, rent and occupancy of $140,000, professional services of $100,000, insurance of $60,000, and other operating expenses of $430,000. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $411,694 compared to the prior year. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to continued capitalization of new technologies and enhancements to our processing platform and infrastructure. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded income from operations of $344,335 an increase of $3,083,768 from the period ending December 31, 2021, related to the aforementioned factors. Other income for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $762,620 related to an increase in interest income resulting primarily from higher cash balances and increases in the federal funds rate throughout the year as the Federal Reserve has increased rates to combat inflation. The effective tax rate was 9.5% and (0.4%) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. The effective tax rates vary, primarily due to state and federal taxes due, offset by the use of net operating losses. The Company continues to have a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2022. The net profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $3,749,109. The overall change in net income relates to the aforementioned factors. Key Metrics, Performance Indicators and Non-GAAP Measures Management reviews a number of metrics to help us monitor the performance of and identify trends affecting our business. We believe the following measures are the primary indicators of our quarterly and annual revenues: Gross Dollar Volume Loaded on Cards Represents the total dollar volume of funds loaded to all of our card programs. Our gross dollar volume was $1.595 billion and $1.066 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We use this metric to analyze the total amount of money moving into our card programs. 25 Conversion Rate on Gross Dollar Volume Loaded on Cards Represents the percent of total gross dollar load volume onto our card programs that is converted into revenue, gross profit and net profit dollars. Our revenue conversion rate for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were 2.38% or 238 basis points (bps), and 2.76% or 276 bps, respectively, of gross dollar volume loaded on cards. Our gross profit conversion rate for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were 1.31% or 131 bps, and 1.38% or 138 bps, respectively, of gross dollar volume loaded on cards. Our net profit conversion rate for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were 0.06% or 6 bps and (0.25%) or (25) bps, respectively, of gross dollar volume loaded on cards. The decline in the revenue conversion rate was primarily attributable to the renewal and restructuring of a referral agreement in Q1 2022. The increase in the gross profit conversion rate was primarily attributable to operating leverage in our Plasma business, offset by the mix of products in our Pharma business as we transition from our higher margin prepaid business and related settlement income to our lower margin copay business, and the launch of Other prepaid programs in the month of December 2022 which have yet to have had time to mature. The increase in the net profit conversion rate was primarily attributable to improving operating results throughout 2022 as well as increased bank balances and interest rates which led to an increase in net interest income. Management also reviews key performance indicators, such as revenues, gross profits, operational expenses as a percent of revenues, and cardholder participation. In addition, we consider certain non-GAAP (or adjusted) measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity, and management of assets. This information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment and investment in new card programs. These adjusted metrics are consistent with how management views our business and are used to make financial, operating and planning decisions. These metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for revenues, operating income, net income (loss), earnings (loss) per share (basic and diluted) or net cash from operating activities as determined in accordance with GAAP. We consider the following non-GAAP measures, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, to be key performance indicators: EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense and Adjusted EBITDA reflects the adjustment to EBITDA to exclude stock-based compensation expense. A reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA is provided in the table below. Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 Reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss): Net income (loss) $ 1,027,775 $ (2,721,334 ) Income tax provision 107,477 10,198 Interest income, net (790,917 ) (28,297 ) Depreciation and amortization 2,909,612 2,497,918 EBITDA 3,253,947 (241,515 ) Stock-based compensation 2,277,717 2,280,931 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,531,664 $ 2,039,416 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash for our last two fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Year ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 25,317,964 $ 15,228,189 Net cash used in investing activities (4,091,683 ) (2,679,664 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 192,141 Net increase in cash and restricted cash $ 21,226,281 $ 12,740,666 26 Comparison of Fiscal 2022 and 2021 In fiscal 2022 and 2021, we financed our operations through internally generated funds. Operating activities provided $25,317,964 of cash in 2022, an increase of $10,089,775 compared to 2021. The increase is primarily due to the increase in net income, depreciation and amortization, and increases in cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The large year-over-year changes in operating assets and liabilities related to accounts receivable, accounts payable and customer card funding are primarily due to the growth in our Plasma and Pharma programs and the timing of collections and payments of our Pharma programs whereby we collect money from pharmaceutical and HUB service companies and reimburse the pharmacy claims processor, healthcare providers and patients for their out-of-pocket drug costs. Investing activities used $4,091,683 of cash in 2022, as compared to $2,679,664 of cash in 2021. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in the capitalization of internally developed software relative to the prior year as we continued to invest in new technologies and enhancements to our processing platform and infrastructure to support the growth of new customers and our existing business. No cash was provided or used by financing activities in 2022. Our cash provided by financing activities for 2021 related entirely to cash received from the exercise of stock options. Our significant contractual cash requirements also include ongoing payments for lease liabilities. For additional information regarding our cash commitments and contractual obligations, see "Note 5 LEASE in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Sources of Financing Unrestricted cash increased $2,321,082 to $9,708,238, due to the improvement in our operating results throughout 2022. Restricted cash of $80,189,113 are funds used for customer card funding with a corresponding offset under current liabilities. The increase of $18,905,199 in 2022 versus 2021 was predominately related to increases in funds on card, increased Plasma deposits, and new Plasma and Pharma customers, offset by declines from Pharma customers whose contracts terminated during the year. We experienced large increases in accounts receivable and accounts payable primarily due to the launch of ten new Pharma programs during the year whereby Paysign invoices its customers for reimbursement to pharmacy networks, pharmacies, or individuals for their out-of-pocket costs and remits those funds to cover the accounts payable liability. We believe that our unrestricted cash on hand at December 31, 2022 of $9,708,238, along with anticipated revenues, operating profits and free cash flow anticipated for 2023 and 2024, will be sufficient to sustain our operations for the next twenty-one months. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Our estimates will be based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is principally recorded on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, which is generally 3 to 10 years. The cost of repairs and maintenance is charged to expense as incurred. Leasehold improvements are capitalized and depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful life of the improvements. Expenditures for property betterments and renewals are capitalized. Upon sale or other disposition of a depreciable asset, cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is reflected in other income (expense). 27 The Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have occurred that may warrant revision of the estimated useful life of fixed assets or whether the remaining balance of fixed assets should be evaluated for possible impairment. The Company uses an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of the fixed assets in measuring their recoverability. Intangible Assets For intangible assets, the Company recognizes an impairment loss if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is generally 3 to 15 years. Internally Developed Software Costs Computer software development costs are expensed as incurred, except for internal use software or website development costs that qualify for capitalization as described below, and include compensation and related expenses, costs of hardware and software, and costs incurred in developing features and functionality. For computer software developed or obtained for internal use, costs that are incurred in the preliminary project and post implementation stages of software development are expensed as incurred. Costs incurred during the application and development stage are capitalized, as the Platform asset. Capitalized costs are amortized using the straight-line method over a three year estimated useful life, beginning in the period in which the software is available for use. Income Taxes Income tax expense is comprised of current and deferred income tax expense. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense results from the changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their basis as reported in our consolidated financial statements. We also recognize deferred tax assets for tax attributes such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. We record valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts we conclude are more likely-than-not to be realized in the foreseeable future. While the Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to adjust its valuation allowance. Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based upon a two-step model: 1) a tax position must be more likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in order to be recognized, and 2) the benefit is measured as the largest dollar amount of that position that is more likely-than-not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the benefit recognized for a position and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit. Income tax related interest and penalties, if applicable, are accrued within income tax expense. Revenue and Expense Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In determining when and how revenue is recognized from contracts with customers, the Company performs the following five-step analysis: (i) identification of contracts with customers; (ii) determination of performance obligations; (iii) measurement of the transaction price; (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations; and (v) recognition of revenue when (or as) the Company satisfies each performance obligation. The Company generates revenues from Plasma card programs through fees generated from cardholder fees and interchange fees. Revenues from Pharma card programs are generated through card program management fees, transaction claims processing fees, interchange fees, and settlement income. 28 Plasma and Pharma card program revenues include both fixed and variable components. Cardholder fees represent an obligation to the cardholder based on a per transaction basis and are recognized at a point in time when the performance obligation is fulfilled. Card program management fees and transaction claims processing fees include an obligation to our card program sponsors and are generally recognized when earned on a monthly basis and are typically due within 30 days pursuant to the contract terms which are generally multi-year contracts. The Company uses the output method to recognize card program management fee revenue at the amount of consideration to which an entity has a right to invoice. The performance obligation is satisfied when the services are transferred to the customer which the Company determined to be monthly, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit from the Companys performance. Interchange fees are earned when customer-issued cards are processed through card payment networks as the nature of our promise to the customer is that we stand ready to process transactions at the customers requests on a daily basis over the contract term. Since the timing and quantity of transactions to be processed by us are not determinable, we view interchange fees to comprise an obligation to stand ready to process as many transactions as the customer requests. Accordingly, the promise to stand ready is accounted for as a single series performance obligation. The Company uses the right to invoice practical expedient and recognizes interchange fee revenue concurrent with the processing of card transactions. Interchange fees are settled in accordance with the card payment network terms and conditions, which is typically within a few days. The Company utilizes the remote method of revenue recognition for settlement income whereby the unspent balances will be recognized as revenue at the expiration of the cards and the respective program. The Company records all revenue on a gross basis since it is the primary obligor and establishes the price in the contract arrangement with its customers. The Company is currently under no obligation for refunding any fees, and the Company does not currently have any obligations for disputed claim settlements. Given the nature of the Companys services and contracts, generally it has no contract assets. Cost of revenues is comprised of transaction processing fees, data connectivity and data center expenses, network fees, bank fees, card production and postage costs, customer service, program management, application integration setup, and sales and commission expense. Operating Leases The Company determines if a contract is or contains a leasing element at contract inception or the date in which a modification of an existing contract occurs. In order for a contract to be considered a lease, the contract must transfer the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Control is determined to have occurred if the lessee has the right to (i) obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the identified asset throughout the period of use and (ii) direct the use of the identified asset. In determining the present value of lease payments at lease commencement date, the Company utilizes its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available, unless the rate implicit in the lease is readily determinable. The liability for operating leases is based on the present value of future lease payments. Operating lease expenses are recorded as rent expense, which is included within selling, general and administrative expenses within the consolidated statements of operations and presented as operating cash outflows within the consolidated statements of cash flows. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet, with lease expense for these leases recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes compensation expense for all restricted stock awards and stock options. The fair value of restricted stock awards is measured using the grant date trading price of our stock. The fair value of stock options is estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and the portion that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as compensation cost over the requisite service period. We have elected to recognize compensation expense for all options with graded vesting on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the entire option. The determination of fair value using the Black-Scholes pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables, including expected stock price volatility and the risk-free interest rate.