ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION and RESULTS OF OPERATION. Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Forward Looking Statements). All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report are Forward Looking Statements. In the normal course of our business, we, in an effort to help keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations, may from time-to-time issue certain statements, either in writing or orally, that contains or may contain Forward-Looking Statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such Forward Looking Statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Generally, these statements relate to business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits or other consequences of such plans or strategies, past and possible future, of acquisitions and projected or anticipated benefits from acquisitions made by or to be made by us, or projections involving anticipated revenues, earnings, levels of capital expenditures or other aspects of operating results. All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect the results of our proposed operations and whether Forward Looking Statements made by us ultimately prove to be accurate. Such important factors (Important Factors) and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed in this report, including those factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors. All prior and subsequent written and oral Forward Looking Statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Important Factors described below that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations as set forth in any Forward Looking Statement made by or on behalf of us. Overview 3PEA International, Inc. is a vertically integrated provider of innovative prepaid card products and processing services for corporate, consumer and government applications. Our payment solutions are utilized by our corporate customers as a means to increase customer loyalty, reduce administration costs and streamline operations. Public sector organizations can utilize the solutions to disburse public benefits or for internal payments. We market our prepaid debit card solutions under our PaySign brand. As we are a payment processor and debit card program manager, we derive our revenue from all stages of the debit card lifecycle. We provide a card processing platform consisting of proprietary systems and innovative software applications based on the unique needs of our programs. We have extended our processing business capabilities through our proprietary PaySign platform. We design and process prepaid card products that run on the platform through which our customers can define the services they wish to offer cardholders. Through the PaySign platform, we provide a variety of services including transaction processing, cardholder enrollment, value loading, cardholder account management, reporting, and customer service. The PaySign platform was built on modern cross-platform architecture and designed to be highly flexible, scalable and customizable. The platform has allowed 3PEA to significantly expand its operational capabilities by facilitating our entry into new markets within the payments space through its flexibility and ease of customization. The PaySign platform delivers cost benefits and revenue building opportunities to our partners. We have developed prepaid card products for corporate and incentive rewards including, but not limited to healthcare reimbursement payments, pharmaceutical co-pay assistance, donor payments for source plasma, corporate expense and per diem payments. We are expanding our product offering to include additional corporate incentive products, payroll cards, general purpose re-loadable cards, travel cards, and reward cards for the hospitality industry. Our cards are offered to end users through our relationships with bank issuers. 22 We are a vertically integrated payment processor and debit card program manager offering innovative payment solutions to corporations, government agencies, universities and other organizations. Our payment solutions are utilized by our customers as a means to increase customer loyalty, reduce administration costs and streamline operations. We market our prepaid debit card solutions under our PaySign brand. As we are a payment processor and debit card program manager, we derive our revenue from all stages of the debit card lifecycle. These revenues can include fees from program set-up; customization and development; data processing and report generation; card production and fulfillment; transaction fees derived from card usage; inactivity fees; card replacement fees and program administration fees. We provide an in-house customer service center which includes live bi-lingual phone operators staffed 24/7, for incoming calls. We also provide in house Interactive Voice Response and two way SMS messaging platforms. The Company divides prepaid cards into two general categories: corporate and consumer reloadable, and non-reloadable cards. Reloadable Cards: These types of cards are generally incentive, payroll or considered general purpose reloadable (GPR) cards. Payroll cards are issued to an employee by an employer to receive the direct deposit of their payroll. GPR cards can also be issued to a consumer at a retail location or mailed to a consumer after completing an on-line application. GPR cards can be reloaded multiple times with a consumers payroll, government benefit, a federal or state tax refund or through cash reload networks located at retail locations. Reloadable cards are generally open loop cards as described below. Non-Reloadable Cards: These are generally one-time use cards that are only active until the funds initially loaded to the card are spent. These types of cards are gift or incentive cards. These cards may be open loop or closed loop. Normally these types of cards are used for purchase of goods or services at retail locations and cannot be used to receive cash. These prepaid cards may be open loop, closed loop or semi-closed loop. Open loop cards can be used to receive cash at ATM locations or purchase goods or services by PIN or signature at retail locations. These cards can be used virtually anywhere that the network brand (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, etc.) is accepted. Closed loop cards can only be used at a specific merchant. Semi-closed loop cards can be used at several merchants such as a shopping mall. The prepaid card market is one of the fastest growing segments of the payments industry in the U.S. This market has experienced significant growth in recent years due to consumers and merchants embracing improved technology, greater convenience, more product choices and greater flexibility. Prepaid cards have also proven to be an attractive alternative to traditional bank accounts for certain segments of the population, particularly those without, or who could not qualify for, a checking or savings account. We have developed prepaid card products for healthcare reimbursement payments, pharmaceutical assistance, plasma donor remuneration, corporate and incentive rewards and expense reimbursement cards. We plan to expand our product offering to include payroll cards, general purpose re-loadable cards and travel cards. Our cards are offered to end users through our relationships with bank issuers. Our products and services are aimed at capitalizing on the growing demand for stored value and reloadable ATM/prepaid card financial products in a variety of market niches. Our proprietary platform is scalable and customizable, delivering cost benefits and revenue building opportunities to partners. We manage all aspects of the debit card lifecycle, from managing the card design and approval processes with banking partners and card associations, to production, packaging, distribution, and personalization. We also oversee inventory and security controls, renewals, lost and stolen card management and replacement. Currently, we are focusing our marketing efforts on corporate incentive and expense prepaid card products, in various market verticals including but not limited to general corporate expense, healthcare related markets including co-pay assistance, clinical trials and source plasma donations expense and per diem cards targeting universities, loyalty rewards and incentive cards targeting the automotive markets and other market niches. As part of our continuing platform expansion process, we evaluate current and emerging technologies for applicability to our existing and future software platform. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in evaluation of various infrastructure components. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions, which we may not be able to develop internally within time and budget constraints. Our principal target markets for processing services include prepaid card issuers, retail and private-label issuers, small third-party processors, and small and mid-size financial institutions in the United States and in emerging international markets. 23 We have devoted more extensive resources to sales and marketing activities as we have added essential personnel to our marketing and sales team. We sell our products directly to customers in the U.S. but may work with a small number of resellers and third parties in international markets to identify, sell and support targeted opportunities. We have also identified opportunities in the European Union and are pursuing those opportunities. In order to expand into new markets, we may need to invest additional funds in technology improvements, sales and marketing expenses, and regulatory compliance costs. We are considering raising capital to enable us to diversify into new market verticals. If we do not raise new capital, we believe that we will still be able to expand into new markets using internally generated funds, but our expansion will not be as rapid. Results of Operations In 2016 we increased our focus on sales and new product development while continuing to invest in our core infrastructure, platform development and the addition of essential personnel in order to allow us to successfully scale our business. As a result, we experienced record annual revenue and a return to profitability in 2016. Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $10,416,672, an increase of $2,309,131 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, when revenues were $8,107,541. The increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of new corporate incentive prepaid card products and growth within our existing corporate incentive prepaid card products. We believe we will experience accelerated revenue growth in 2017 as a result of growth in our existing and the expected addition of new card products in various market verticals. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $5,197,370, an increase of $1,177,856 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, when cost of revenues were $4,019,514. Cost of revenues constituted approximately 50% and 50% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cost of revenues is comprised of transaction processing fees, data connectivity and data center expenses, network fees, bank fees, card production costs, customer service and program management expenses, application integration setup, and sales and commission expense. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $5,219,302, an increase of $1,131,275 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, when gross profit was $4,088,027. Our overall gross profit percentage approximated 50% and 50% during the fiscal years 2016 and 2015 which is consistent with our overall expectations. We believe our profit margins will remain near the same level in 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were, 3,288,373 a decrease of $445,814 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, when selling, general and administrative expenses were $3,734,187. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease in costs associated with our expansion into the European Union. We continued to ramp up our investment in infrastructure and processes during 2016. In fiscal 2016, we devoted more resources to our internal sales and marketing team and expect to continue to do so in 2017. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded operating income of $1,358,609 as compared to operating (loss) of $(8,872) in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $1,367,481. Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $(60,958), as compared to other income (expense) of $(2,540,705) in year ended December 31, 2015, which represents an increase in net other income (expense) of $2,479,747. The increase in net other income in 2016 as compared to 2015 was primarily due to a legal settlement totaling $2,500,000 we recorded as an expense in 2015 which is further discussed in detail in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $1,400,799 as compared to net income (loss) of $(2,410,337) in the year ended December 31, 2015, which represents an increase in net income (loss) of $3,811,136. The overall change in net income is attributable to the aforementioned factors. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth the major sources and uses of cash for our last two fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 1,266,723 $ (719,504 ) Net cash (used in) investing activities (887,009 ) (926,182 ) Net cash (used in) financing activities (137,265 ) (851,788 ) Net increase (decrease) in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents $ 242,449 $ (2,497,474 ) Comparison of Fiscal 2016 and 2015 In fiscal 2016 and 2015, we financed our operations through internally generated funds. Operating activities provided (used) $1,266,723 of cash in 2016, as compared to $(719,504) of cash (used) in fiscal 2015. Major non-cash items that affected our cash flow from operations in 2016 were non-cash stock based expenses of $92,939 and depreciation and amortization of $572,320. Our operating assets and liabilities provided (used) $696,190 of cash, which resulted primarily from a decrease in legal settlement payable of $999,758. Investing activities used $(887,007) of cash in 2016, as compared to $(926,182) of cash in 2015, all of which related in both years to platform expansion and the purchase of equipment used in our business. Financing activities provided (used in) $(137,265) of cash in 2016 as compared to $(851,788) of cash(used) in 2015. Our cash used in financing activities in 2016 and 2015 related to net repayment of borrowings during both years. Liquidity and Sources of Financing We believe that our available cash on hand at December 31, 2016 of $1,631,943, along with anticipated revenues and operating profits anticipated for 2017, will be sufficient to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements. At this time, we are not required to make any material estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Our estimates will be based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. Our estimates will be based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. 25