Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies, prospects, or strategic partnerships, possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, and the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2020. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We offer products and services designed to empower engineers and data scientists across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield, quality, and profitability of their products. We derive revenues from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Our offerings combine proprietary software, physical intellectual property (IP) for Integrated Circuits (or IC) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We primarily monetize our offerings through time-based license fees, contract revenue for professional services, and increasingly recently, software as a service (or SaaS). In some cases, especially on our historical integrated yield ramp (or IYR) engagements, we also receive a value-based royalty that we call Gainshare. Our products, services, and solutions have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSATs), and system houses. Industry Trend The global COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the operations and purchasing decisions of companies worldwide. While the full potential economic impact brought by the COVID-19 pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets and on June 8, 2020, the National Bureau of Economic Research announced that the U.S. was in a recession. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected how we and our customers are operating our business. For example, most U.S. states and countries worldwide have imposed and may continue to impose from time-to-time for the foreseeable future, restrictions on the physical movement of our employees, partners, and customers to limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and shelter-in-place orders. As a result, our Shanghai office was temporarily shut down and the restrictions limited the ability of our local employees to travel to customer sites or visit our other offices from January to April 2020. Our corporate headquarters in the United States and several other impacted locations were temporarily closed but our US R&D facility partially reopened in June 2020 and our offices in Canada, France and Korea have reopened on various dates during the second quarter of 2020. We are closely monitoring the COVID-19 situation and currently preparing plans to reopen our other offices with focused on our employees safety. In addition, our personnel worldwide are subject to various country to country travel restrictions, which limit our ability to provide services to customers at their facilities. To date, we have been able to provide uninterrupted access to our products and services due to our globally distributed workforce, many of whom are already working remotely, and our pre-existing infrastructure, which supports secure access to our internal systems. If, however, the COVID-19 pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees productivity or our partners or customers decision to use our products and services, our ability to deliver on current commitments, to secure future bookings, or achieve expected financial performance may be harmed. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the virus, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and vendors. 26 Table of Contents Certain general business trends may affect our Analytics revenue. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by the user) is driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the organization of IT networks and computing at those same companies. First, the ubiquity of connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has continually decreased year to year. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. Semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, frequently resulting in greater demands on analytics programs. The combination of these two trends means that cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security and data protection are increasingly in demand for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these trends will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in adopting Industry 4.0 and secure cloud computing will create opportunities for companies that have a combination of advanced analytics capabilities, proven and established data infrastructures, and professional services to optimize their environment to customers specialized needs. Other business trends may continue to affect our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue. The logic foundry market at the leading-edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm has undergone significant change over the past few years. The leading foundry continues to increase market share as other foundries have either suspended 7nm development, forecasted a later start of mass production, or started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely continue to negatively impact our Integrated Yield Ramp business on these nodes. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and extreme ultraviolet lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes and continue to engage foreign suppliers. As a result of these market developments, we have chosen to focus our resources and investments in products, services, and solutions for analytics. There are other general business trends that may affect our business opportunities. For instance, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high-performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will continue to create a need for all types of products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. Our Strategic Partnership On July 29, 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Advantest Corporation through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Advantest America, Inc., that includes: (i) a significant agreement for our assistance in development of cloud-based applications for Advantest tools that leverage our Exensio software analytics platform; (ii) a commercial agreement providing for the license to third parties of solutions that result from the development work that combine Advantests testing applications and our Exensio platform; (iii) a 5-year cloud-based license for our Exensio platform and related hosted management services and DEX services, which provide tool data collected from certain OSAT facilities; and (iv) the purchase of 3,306,924 shares of our common stock, at a purchase price of $19.7085 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $65.2 million. Concurrent with the share purchase, Advantest Corporation also entered into multi-year voting and lock-up agreements. 27 Table of Contents Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended June 30, 2020, were as follows: Total revenues were $21.4 million, an increase of $0.8 million, or 4%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. Analytics revenue was $15.2 million, which was an increase of $3.2 million, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by $4.1 million increase in CV services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $2.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.2 million decrease in revenue from services from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and a $1.2 million decrease in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes. Costs of revenues increased $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to (i) a $0.7 million increase in direct costs due mainly to the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $0.8 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel in the second quarter of 2020 due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Gross margin was 58%, compared to 62% for the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net loss was $3.7 million, compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to a $1.1 million increase in costs of revenues, a $1.3 million increase in operating expenses as we continued to make investments in research and development sales and marketing activities, a $0.3 million increase in interest and other expense (income), net, and a $1.1 million decrease in income tax benefit, partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in revenues. Cash, cash equivalents and investments increased $5.8 million to $103.4 million at June 30, 2020, from $97.6 million at December 31, 2019, primarily due to the collection of accounts receivables, partially offset by cash used in investing activities primarily related to additions to property and equipment for our DFI solution, including construction of additional eProbe tools. Financial highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2020, were as follows: Total revenues were $42.6 million, which was an increase of $1.5 million, or 4%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019. Analytics revenue was $28.4 million, which was an increase of $5.0 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by $6.2 million increase in CV services and Exensio licenses and services, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019 and decrease in DFI revenue. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.2 million decrease in revenue from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and the effect $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment recognized in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm technology nodes. Costs of revenues increased $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to (i) a $1.3 million increase in direct costs related to third-party software royalty and licenses expense, equipment and hardware expense related to a new customer engagement, and the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $1.6 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, partially offset by (i) a $0.4 million decrease in personnel-related costs, and (ii) a $0.7 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel in the first half of 2020 due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Gross margin was 59%, compared to 62% for the six months ended June 30, 2019. 28 Table of Contents Net loss was $4.2 million, compared to $3.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to a $1.7 million increase in costs of revenues, a $2.6 million increase in operating expenses as we continued to make investments in research and development sales and marketing activities, and a $0.3 million increase in interest and other expense (income), net, partially offset by a $1.5 million increase in revenues and a $2.2 million increase in income tax benefit. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. There were no material changes during the six months ended June 30, 2020 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and intangible assets, and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue is derived from the following primary offerings: licenses and services for Exensio Software, Exensio SaaS, DFI and Characterization Vehicle (CV) systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue from standalone Exensio Software is recognized depending on whether the license is perpetual or time-based. Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the customers, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing (i) support and (ii) unspecified software updates on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based-licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time as follows. The license component is recognized at the time when control transfers to customers, with the post-contract support component recognized ratably over the committed term of the contract. For contracts with any combination of licenses, support, and other services, distinct performance obligations are accounted for separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using standalone selling price (or SSP) attributed to each performance obligation. Revenue from Exensio SaaS arrangements, which allow for the use of a cloud-based software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software, is accounted for as subscriptions and is recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the date the service is first made available to customers. 29 Table of Contents Revenue from DFI and CV systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement is recognized primarily as services are performed. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs. For these contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP attributed to each performance obligation. Where there are not discrete performance obligations, historically, revenue is primarily recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is derived from our yield ramp engagements, which include Gainshare or other performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue under these projectbased contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time typically for a fixed fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion. Similar to the services provided in connection with CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgement. The Gainshare royalty contained in yield ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of our IP after the fixed-fee service period ends, based on the customers yield achievement. Revenue derived from Gainshare is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare royalty periods are generally subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We record Gainshare as a usage-based royalty derived from customers' usage of intellectual property and record it in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes We are required to assess whether it is "more-likely-than-not" that we will realize our deferred tax assets. If we believe that they are not likely to be fully realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets, then to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance was approximately $11.2 million and $10.5 million as of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019 respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses (NOLs) related to an acquisition that we currently do not believe to be more-likely-than-not to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time more-likely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will decrease in the period in which we make such determination. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability considering both positive and negative evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and any carryback availability. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. Our income tax calculations are based on application of applicable U.S. federal, state, or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. At June 30, 2020, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings from our international subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, we have not provided for any foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of June 30, 2020. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are taxable in the U.S. in the year earned under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income rules implemented under 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 30 Table of Contents On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted. The CARES Act includes, among other things, refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of some employer FICA taxes, allowance of net operating loss carrybacks for up to five years, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, and technical amendments regarding the income tax depreciation of qualified improvement property placed in service after December 31, 2017. The removal of certain limitations on the utilization of NOLs resulted in our recognition of an income tax benefit of $2.2 million from the carryback of federal NOLs during the six months ended June 30, 2020. Valuation of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We have one operating segment and one operating unit. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently, if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of excess, limited to the amount of total goodwill. There was no goodwill impairment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property and equipment and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment . For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. There was no impairment of long-lived assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Income Statement Presentation In the fourth quarter of 2019, in order to enhance the transparency of our revenue reporting, we updated our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss to change our historical presentation of revenue categories. Previously, we presented revenue on two lines: Solutions and Gainshare performance incentives. Included within Solutions, was revenue from software and related revenue, SaaS solutions, DFI licenses, and fixed-price project-based solution implementation services. The previous Gainshare performance incentive category included only revenue from performance incentive programs. We now present revenue in the following categories: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is comprised of all revenue from our Integrated Yield Ramp services engagements that include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement, i.e. both fixed-fees and Gainshare royalty from such engagements. Analytics comprises all other revenue, including from our licenses and services for Exensio Software, Exensio SaaS, DFI and CV systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. 31 Table of Contents The change in presentation of revenue does not change our net revenues or total cost of net revenues. The following table shows reclassified amounts to conform to the current periods presentation (in thousands): For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 Change in Change in Previously Presentation Current Previously Presentation Current Reported Reclassification Presentation Reported Reclassification Presentation Revenues: Solutions $ 13,429 $ (13,429 ) N/A $ 30,090 $ (30,090 ) N/A Gainshare performance incentives 7,139 (7,139 ) N/A 11,019 (11,019 ) N/A Analytics N/A 11,974 $ 11,974 N/A 23,408 $ 23,408 Integrated Yield Ramp N/A 8,594 8,594 N/A 17,701 17,701 Total revenues $ 20,568 $ $ 20,568 $ 41,109 $ $ 41,109 Since certain costs of revenues are attributed to both Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp revenue categories, we believe it is more appropriate and meaningful to present the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss under a one-step presentation format that excludes any measure of gross margin. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we elected to change our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss presentation from a two-step presentation, where total costs of revenues was deducted from total revenues to report a gross profit line, to a one-step presentation, where total costs and expenses are deducted from total revenues. The change in presentation does not change previously presented amounts for costs of revenues, operating expenses and other expenses (income), or loss before income taxes. Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Six Months Ended June 30 , 2020 and 2019 Revenues, Costs of Revenues, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Revenues: Analytics $ 15,172 $ 11,974 $ 3,198 27 % $ 28,420 $ 23,408 $ 5,012 21 % Integrated Yield Ramp 6,237 8,594 (2,357 ) (27 )% 14,147 17,701 (3,554 ) (20 )% Total revenues $ 21,409 $ 20,568 $ 841 4 % $ 42,567 $ 41,109 $ 1,458 4 % Costs of revenues 8,946 7,832 1,114 14 % 17,433 15,700 1,733 11 % Gross profit $ 12,463 $ 12,736 $ (273 ) (2 )% $ 25,134 $ 25,409 $ (275 ) (1 )% Gross margin 58 % 62 % 59 % 62 % Analytics revenue as a percentage of total revenues 71 % 58 % 67 % 57 % Integrated Yield Ramp revenue as a percentage of total revenues 29 % 42 % 33 % 43 % Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue increased $3.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by $4.1 million increase in CV services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019. Analytics revenue increased $5.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by $6.2 million increase in CV services and Exensio licenses and services, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019 and decrease in DFI revenue. 32 Table of Contents Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $2.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.2 million decrease in revenue from services from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and a $1.2 million decrease in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.2 million decrease in revenue from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and a $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment recognized in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm technology nodes. Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period primarily due to the contribution of Gainshare royalty, which is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new contracts containing Gainshare. Our revenues may fluctuate in the future and are dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our products, services and solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Services costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software used by us in providing services to our customers in solution engagements, or sold in conjunction with our software products. The increase in costs of revenues of $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, was primarily due to (i) a $0.7 million increase in direct costs due mainly to the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $0.8 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel in the second quarter of 2020 due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. The increase in costs of revenues of $1.7 million the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2019, was primarily due to (i) a $1.3 million increase in direct costs related to third-party software royalty and licenses expense, equipment and hardware expense related to a new customer engagement, and lower deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $1.6 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, partially offset by (i) a $0.4 million decrease in personnel-related costs, and (ii) a $0.7 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel in the first half of 2020 due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was 58% compared to 62% for the year-ago period, or a decrease of 4%. The decrease in gross margin during the three months ended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to an increase in cloud-delivery service costs, depreciation expense related to our test equipment and increases in certain third-party royalty and licensing costs. Gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was 59% compared to 62% for the year-ago period, or a decrease of 3%. The higher gross margin during the first half of 2019 was primarily due to $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment, partially offset by an overall increase in Analytics revenue during the first half of 2020, which revenue is comprised of software and term-based licenses that include lower direct costs of revenues to deliver than IYR offerings. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses: Research and Development Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Research and development $ 7,754 $ 7,312 $ 442 6 % $ 16,344 $ 15,558 $ 786 5 % As a percentage of total revenues 36 % 36 % 38 % 38 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses increased for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.2 million increase in personnel-related costs, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in depreciation expense, (iii) a $0.1 million increase in cloud-services related costs, and (iv) a $0.1 million increase in software licenses and maintenance expense, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses. Research and development expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.4 million increase in depreciation expense, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-services related costs, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions, and (iv) a $0.2 million increase in software licenses and maintenance expense, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period due to the timing of product development projects. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 7,737 $ 6,940 $ 797 11 % $ 15,632 $ 13,950 $ 1,682 12 % As a percentage of total revenues 36 % 34 % 37 % 34 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.5 million increase in legal fees, (ii) a $0.4 million increase in subcontractor expenses, (iii) a $0.2 million write-down in carrying value of property and equipment, and (iv) a $0.1 million increase in cloud-services related costs, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in personnel-related costs, and a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.8 million increase in legal fees, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in subcontractor expenses, (iii) a $0.3 million increase in personnel-related costs, (iv) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-services related costs, and (v) a $0.2 million increase from a write-down of equipment, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses, and a $0.2 million decrease in depreciation and maintenance expenses. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support our selling efforts in the future. 34 Table of Contents Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 174 $ 154 $ 20 13 % $ 347 $ 262 $ 85 32 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combination. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Interest and other expense (income), net $ 150 $ (111 ) $ 261 235 % $ 170 $ (105 ) $ 275 262 % Interest and other expense (income), net, primarily consists of interest income, gains and losses from foreign currency forward contracts, and foreign currency transaction exchange gains and losses. Interest and other expense (income), net increased for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a decrease in interest income due to lower interest rates, and higher net unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Interest and other expense (income), net increased for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a decrease in interest income due to lower interest rates. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Income tax expense (benefit) $ 300 $ (849 ) $ 1,149 135 % $ (3,179 ) $ (947 ) $ (2,232 ) 236 % Income tax expense increased for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to the results of changes in the excess tax benefit from employee stock compensation expense and the tax benefit from forecasted operating losses. Income tax benefit increased for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due favorable increase in excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation expense and as a result of the provisions of the CARES Act. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, we recorded an income tax benefit of $2.2 million from the carryback of federal NOLs pursuant to the provisions of the CARES Act. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2020, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $118.9 million, compared to $119.6 million as of December 31, 2019. Cash and cash equivalents were $103.4 million as of June 30, 2020, compared to $97.6 million as of December 31, 2019. As of June 30, 2020, and December 31, 2019, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $2.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations for at least the next twelve months. There has been no significant impact in respect to Liquidity and Capital Resources from the global COVID-19 pandemic. For risk discussion about the potential impact of global COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or demand for our products, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors on Part II of this Report. 35 Table of Contents Cash Flow Data Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 10,630 $ 4,966 $ 5,664 Investing activities (3,940 ) (6,664 ) 2,724 Financing activities (839 ) (7,556 ) 6,717 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (15 ) (18 ) 3 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5,836 $ (9,272 ) $ 15,108 Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2020 mostly consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred tax assets. The $5.7 million increase in cash flows from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by a $7.1 million increase in net change from operating assets and liabilities, which was offset by a $0.8 million increase in net loss, and a $0.6 million decrease in non-cash adjustments to net loss, which was primarily due to (i) an increase in deferred tax assets of $2.0 million, (ii) an increase in depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million, and (iii) an increase in share-based compensation expense of $0.4 million. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2020 were as follows: Accounts receivable, net, decreased by $12.0 million, primarily due to increased collections and lower contractual invoicing activity during the first half of 2020. Other noncurrent assets increased by $1.6 million, primarily due to a decrease in the noncurrent portion of unbilled receivables due to the timing of billing and revenue recognition. Accounts payable decreased by $4.0 million primarily due to the timing of payments of invoices and payment of an invoice for a multi-year licensing and distribution agreement related to our Exensio software. Deferred revenues and billings in excess of recognized revenues decreased by a total of $1.7 million primarily due to timing of billing and revenue recognition. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities decreased by $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the year-ago period. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, cash used in investing activities primarily related to property and equipment purchased for our DFI solution, including construction of additional eProbe tools. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, cash flows used in investing activities related to (i) a $4.0 million property and equipment purchased primarily related to the construction of our DFI solution and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and (ii) a $2.7 million payment for a business acquisition. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $6.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the year-ago period. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $2.3 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.4 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $7.7 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $1.5 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.6 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. 36 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of June 30, 2020: Payments Due by Period 2020 2025 (remaining and Contractual Obligations six months) 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter Total Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,046 $ 1,852 $ 1,606 $ 1,113 $ 807 $ 2,976 $ 9,400 Purchase obligations (2) 7,651 3,300 719 369 321 321 12,681 Total (3) $ 8,697 $ 5,152 $ 2,325 $ 1,482 $ 1,128 $ 3,297 $ 22,081 (1) Refer to Note 4, Leases of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $3.0 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.