Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2018. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. 21 Table of Contents Overview We analyze our customers IC design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software and hardware that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend Consistent with the trend since 2010, in 2018, we expect that the largest logic foundries will continue to invest significantly in leading edge nodes. However, capacity levels in 2018 at advanced nodes, such as 10 and 7 nanometers, may be significantly lower at introduction than some previous nodes, such as 28 nanometers. We also expect that most logic foundries will increase investment in 2018 in derivatives of older process nodes to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Leading foundries are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as 3-D transistors, memory, and packaging, multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in 2018 in semiconductors to continue to accelerate the growth of the industry for the next few years. All these trends provide opportunities to increase our business. Generally, the demand for consumer electronics and communications devices continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering cost per transistor. As a result, both logic and memory manufacturers have migrated to more and more advanced manufacturing nodes, capable of integrating more devices with higher performance, higher density, and lower power. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that as new advanced nodes continue to be introduced and industry dynamics drive the introduction of derivative nodes, the difficulties of integrating IC designs with their respective processes will create a greater need for products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 20 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, Customers, on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 13 through 19 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. 22 Table of Contents Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended March 31, 2018, were as follows: Total revenues were $24.7 million, which was an increase of $0.5 million, or 2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenues were $18.2 million, which was a decrease of $1.5 million, or 8%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue was primarily related to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $6.5 million, an increase of $2.0 million, or 43%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily the result of higher 14nm Gainshare from one customer as well as new Gainshare from the engagements that reached the performance incentive target in the period, partially offset by lower Gainshare from 28nm and older nodes. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 54%, compared to 53% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Net loss was $0.4 million, compared to net income of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million decrease in income tax benefit primarily due to lower excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation and impacts of the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"), such as, a decrease in the maximum federal tax rate from 35% to 21%, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), and foreign derived intangible income (FDII). Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.01) for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.02, for the three months ended March 31, 2017, a decrease of $0.03 per basic and diluted share. Cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased $2.7 million to $98.5 million at March 31, 2018, from $101.3 million at December 31, 2017, primarily due to cash used in investing activities related to the development of our DFI solution, and cash used in financing activities primarily due to repurchases of our common stock, offset by cash generated from operating activities during the quarter. Critical Accounting Policies See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. With the exception of the changes made to our revenue recognition policy as a result of the adoption of ASC 606, there have been no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Design-to-silicon-yield Solutions and Gainshare performance incentives. 23 Table of Contents Design-to-silicon-yield solutions We recognize revenue for each element of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions as follows: We generate a significant portion of its Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue from fixed-price solution implementation service contracts delivered over a specific period of time. Revenue under projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of costs or hours at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by us to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated (cumulative catch-up method). On occasion, we include our products as a component of its fixed-price service contracts. In such instances, we determine whether the services performed and products included, are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation and therefore follows the pattern of transfer as the service is provided. We apply a measure of progress (typically hours-to-hours or cost-to-cost) to any fixed consideration. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are performed using percentage of completion method. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. We also license our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their standalone selling prices, or SSP. In such instances, we apply judgment to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. We license some of our software products separately from solution implementations, primarily its Exensio big data platform and related products. The majority of these products are delivered as on-premise software licenses, while others can be delivered entirely or partially through Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or cloud delivery models. Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support subscription is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based license software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time. The license component is recognized at a point in time, at the delivery of the software license, with the post-contract support subscription component being recognized ratably over for the committed term of the contract. Revenue from software hosting or SaaS arrangements that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a contract to provide yield improvement services, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by the Company of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer pays a variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended, related to the usage of the Company's intellectual property. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare performance incentive periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We recorded Gainshare revenue as a usage-based royalty based on customers' usage of intellectual property and recorded in the same period in which the usage occurs. 24 Table of Contents Income Taxes We are required to assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and if we believe that they are not likely to be realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets then, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The valuation allowance was approximately $9.0 million and $9.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses related to acquisition that we currently do not believe to be more likely than not to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time no longer morelikely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will increase in the period in which we make such determination. Our income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of operations. At March 31, 2018, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings of approximately $3.4 million from the Companys international subsidiaries since these earnings have been, and under current plans will continue to be, permanently reinvested outside the United States. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the unrecognized tax liability at this time. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by the line items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Three Months Ended March 31 , 2018 2017 Revenues: Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 74 % 81 % Gainshare performance incentives 26 % 19 Total revenues 100 % 100 % Costs of design-to-silicon-yield solutions 45 47 Amortization of acquired technology 1 1 Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 46 48 Gross profit 54 52 Operating expenses: Research and development 29 30 Selling, general and administrative 26 24 Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 1 1 Total operating expenses 56 55 Income (loss) from operations (2 ) (2 ) Interest and other income (expense), net (1 ) (1 ) Income (loss) before taxes (3 ) (3 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (1 ) (5 ) Net income (loss) (2 )% 2 % 25 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Revenues 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 18,190 $ 19,698 $ (1,508 ) (8 %) Gainshare performance incentives 6,547 4,591 1,956 43 % Total revenues $ 24,737 $ 24,289 $ 448 2 % Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software licenses, provided during our customer yield improvement engagements as well as during solution product sales. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue decreased $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions was primarily due to the decrease in the revenue from our yield ramp solutions due to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by strong business activities. Our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business or, in the case of a time and materials contract, may take advantage of contractual provisions that permit the suspension of contracted work for a period if their business experiences a financial hardship. Gainshare Performance Incentives. Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent royalties and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives increased $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily the result of higher 14nm Gainshare from one customer as well as new Gainshare from the engagements that reached the performance incentive target in the period, partially offset by lower Gainshare from 28nm and older nodes. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,338 $ 11,335 $ 3 % Amortization of acquired technology 144 96 48 50 % Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,482 $ 11,431 $ 51 % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of service and software licenses costs. Service costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software used by the Company in providing services to our customers in solution engagements, or sold in conjunction with our software products. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions were flat for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The change in direct cost of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions primarily due to a $0.3 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount, offset by a $0.3 million increase in hardware and equipment expense due to the timing of hardware shipment to the customers. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended March 31, 2018, slightly increased due to the amortization of acquired technology from our acquisition of certain assets from Kinesys. 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31 $ % Research and Development 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 7,245 $ 7,282 $ (37 ) (1 %) Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses were relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The change in the research and development expenses was primarily due to a $0.2 million decrease in personnel-related expense due to lower headcount, offset by a $0.2 million increase in facilities expense due to the increase in depreciation expense for lab equipment. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Selling, General and Administrative 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 6,375 $ 5,899 $ 476 8 % Selling, General and Administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a $0.3 million increase in accounting and legal expense, largely due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, a $0.1 million increase in personnel-related expenses and a $0.1 million increase in subcontractor expenses. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets 2018 2017 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 109 $ 92 $ 17 18 % Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets . Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. The increase in amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily related to amortization of other acquired intangible assets related to acquisition of certain assets from Kinesys. Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (331 ) $ (230 ) $ (101 ) 44 % 27 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income ( expense), net . Interest and other income (expense), net changed $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The change was primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements. Three Months Ended March 31 , $ % Income Tax Provision (Benefits) 2018 2017 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Income tax provision (benefits) $ (381 ) $ (1,162 ) $ 781 (67 %) Income Tax Provision (benefits) . Income tax benefit decreased $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to lower excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation and impacts of recently enacted U.S. tax reform, such as, a decrease in the maximum federal tax rate from 35% to 21%, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), and foreign derived intangible income (FDII). Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $148.1 million, compared to $144.3 million as of December 31, 2017. Cash and cash equivalents were $98.5 million as of March 31, 2018, compared to $101.3 million as of December 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $3.4 million and $3.1 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. During three months ended March 31, 2018, cash provided by operating activities of $3.3 million was a result of $0.4 million of net loss, non-cash adjustments to net income of $4.5 million, and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $0.9 million. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $2.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.3 million, and amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.3 million. Cash provided by operating activities resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $1.9 million increase in deferred revenue, a $0.8 million decrease in other non-current assets, and a $0.5 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $2.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, mainly due to an $1.8 million increase in contract assets, a $1.3 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefit, and a $0.5 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities. Cash flows used in investing activities of $2.5 million, consisted of payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment. Cash flows used in financing activities of $3.6 million, consisted of $4.1 million repurchases of common stock, $0.6 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.0 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in operating activities of $0.4 million was a result of $0.5 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $3.7 million and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $4.6 million. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $2.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.1 million, and amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.2 million, partially offset by deferred taxes of $0.6 million. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $1.9 million increase in accounts receivable, mainly due to the timing of customer payments, a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expense and other current assets, a $1.0 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, a $0.6 million of decrease in accrued and other liabilities, and a $2.0 million increase in other non-current assets, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in accounts payable, a $1.7 million increase in deferred revenue, and a $0.1 million increase in billing in excess of recognized revenue. Cash flows used in investing activities of $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, consisted of payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment. Cash flows provided by financing activities of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, consisted of $0.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.9 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, offset by $0.8 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. 28 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of March 31, 2018: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2018 (remaining nine months) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations(1) $ 1,363 $ 800 $ 726 $ 645 $ 389 $ 51 $ 3,974 Purchase obligations(2) 11,542 2,414 300 230 222 0 14,708 Total(3) $ 12,309 $ 3,214 $ 1,026 $ 875 $ 611 $ 51 $ 18,086 (1) As of March 31, 2018, we lease approximately 28,600 square feet for principal executive offices located in San Jose, California. The lease terminates September 2018. In April 2018, we entered into a new approximately 20,757 square foot lease, located in Santa Clara, California. The term of the new lease is approximately ten years and is expected to commence on or around July 1, 2018. Total lease obligation over the new lease term is approximately $7.0 million, less a lease abatement allowance of approximately $0.4 million. The terms of the new lease include a tenant improvement allowance of approximately $1.3 million. (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $3.0 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 5. of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.