Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this Form 10-K, especially those contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The words may, anticipate, plan, continue, could, projected, expect, believe, intend, and assume, the negative of these terms and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and based on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to fiscal year apply to our fiscal year that ends on December 31. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. PART I Item 1. Business Business Overview PDF Solutions offers products and services designed to empower engineers and data scientists across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield, quality, and profitability of their products. Our solutions combine proprietary software, physical intellectual property (or IP) for integrated circuit (or IC) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We primarily monetize our solutions through time-based license fees and contract revenue for professional services. In some cases, especially on our historical yield ramp engagements, we also receive a value-based royalty that we call a Gainshare performance incentive. Our products and services have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSATs), and system houses. The key benefits of our products and services are improved product yields and product quality with faster time-to-market, which collectively increases profitability for our customers. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Also, for example, our integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs) and fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time for initial designs to meet performance requirements with fewer iterations and faster time-to-market. For further example, our foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, and/or test. 4 Table of Contents Our long-term business strategy is to be the solutions provider of choice for the semiconductor and electronic supply chain to enable our customers to optimize processes, designs, and fabrication for high yield, low cost, time-to-market, and high performance. To achieve this, we intend to: Expand Our Market Opportunity By Offering Complete Solutions . We intend to increase the breadth and depth of the use of our solutions by focusing on complete offerings instead of only point products at both new and existing customers. For example, with deployments of our 1 st and 2 nd generation DFI systems and with DFI on-chip instruments embedded in over 100 customer chips from 28nm down to 7nm, we believe there is a ready market for our analysis software, which is co-optimized with the measurement instruments for comprehensiveness and efficiency to identify blockers that impact product yield and quality weeks or months earlier than with any other hardware- or software-based methodology. We believe the foresight provided by this application will be of significant interest to companies across the semiconductor industry and will provide a solid footprint that can be expanded in subsequent years with the license of additional analysis applications, such as yield, fault detection and classification (or FDC), and test. Expand in China. China represents a significant opportunity for the semiconductor industry over the next few decades. Success in China will depend on the successful engagement with customers in three key categories: fabless semiconductor vendors, pure-play foundries, and memory vendors. PDF has customers in all three categories that are well-known and highly respected by other prospective customers in China. We intend to leverage our success with these customers to further penetrate the China market. We also intend to leverage our foresight capabilities, led by the combination of our DFI solutions and Exensio platform, to provide compelling capabilities for the emerging China semiconductor ecosystem as they ramp to the most advanced process nodes. Align Our Business to the Evolving Semiconductor Marketplace. As fewer companies continue down the path of Moores Law, the vast majority of other companies are embracing a More than Moore (or MtM) approach, seeking to achieve higher performance and smaller form-factors but without the design and manufacturing costs of the most advanced process nodes. Due to our extensive knowledge about every process node currently in mass production at the majority of the worlds leading foundries, we are in position to be the provider of choice for semiconductor companies embracing an MtM approach to bring their new products to market. Combined with the differentiated data generated by our solutions, our products and services are designed to accelerate how quickly customers can achieve fast yield ramps for products based on manufacturing techniques such as system-in-package (or SiP) and multi-chip-packages (or MCPs) that are popular with MtM design approaches. Brief History PDF Solutions was incorporated in Pennsylvania in November 1992, and we reincorporated in California in November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market as PDFS. From 2000 through 2009, we expanded our technology footprint and our operations in various countries through acquisitions. From 2009 to 2018, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare revenues. In 2013, we leveraged our extensive experience in yield simulation software and Characterization Vehicle test chip development and started research and development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical characterization and process control for wafer inspection. The first generation e-beam tool was completed in 2015, and the second generation was commercially deployed in 2018. In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-integrated data analytics platform, which resulted in accelerated growth in software through 2018. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, we also operate worldwide in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Industry Background Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price and demand started to decrease near the end of the products life cycle. Today there are many different business models across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards fast-moving market segments like IoT, utilizing mature process nodes and requiring a fast ramp to volume with a relatively short life cycle, and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending on the level of design complexity and the maturity of the process node used for product implementation. Processors, memory and FPGAs continue to leverage the most advanced process nodes and experience significant challenges to achieve competitive initial yields and optimized performance. Some products and market segments, however, are content to utilize older process nodes. Regardless of the process node used for implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield reclamation, product quality, and test efficiency, throughout a products life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. 5 Table of Contents Technology and Intellectual Property Protection Through yield, performance, and reliability improvement services over more than 20 years, we have accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and CV solutions, our engineers create designs of experiments (or DOEs) and layouts for targeted fail modes. We have also developed electrical measurement hardware tools and proprietary extraction, design, and analysis software. In addition, our technology embodies many production-proven and patented algorithms. Further, our IP includes proven methodologies that our implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers use of our technology. We continually enhance our core technologies through the codification of knowledge that we gain in the use of our products and delivery of services. Our future success and competitive position rely to some extent upon our ability to protect these proprietary technologies and IP, to generate revenue from the licensed sale and support of our software and hardware to customers, and to prevent competitors from using our systems, methods, and technologies in their products or solutions. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, and patent, copyright, mask work, and trademark laws. We license our products and technologies pursuant to non-exclusive license agreements that impose restrictions on customers use. In addition, we seek to avoid disclosure of our trade secrets, including requiring employees, customers, and others with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us, and restricting access to our source code. We also seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect our IP under patent laws and as of December 31, 2018, we held 140 U.S. patents. Our issued patents have expiration dates from 2019 through 2037. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. We also employ protection of our trademarks, with registration of marks, including Characterization Vehicle, CV, eProbe, Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, the PDF Solutions logo. We have common law rights to additional trademarks, including ALPS, Design-for-Inspection, DFI, DirectProbe, and DirectScan. Products and Services Through organic development and targeted acquisitions over more than 20 years, we have accumulated an array of highly-integrated and co-designed proprietary software, physical IP for IC designs, electrical measurement tools, and proven methodologies. Subsets of this array are selected to address each customers specific technical and business requirements. For example, a fabless customer designing a new product may use our proprietary on-wafer instruments and cell libraries to design physical IP to enhance their design for manufacturability or inspection. By way of another example, a fabless company in volume manufacturing may use our data analytic software tools, which are also available to their foundry partners, to monitor how their designs are performing at their foundry partners. The following gives more information about our products and services, including when combined into solutions. Solutions Data Analytics Solutions. Our Exensio -based solutions are designed to link the critical data streams from the entire manufacturing process from bare wafer to packaged part or system to improve yield and yield recovery, provide both better operational and process control of tools and testers, and maintain comprehensive traceability from starting wafer through to final packaged part or system. When used in conjunction with our Characterization Vehicle solutions, our data analytics solutions enable customers to correlate the unique, differentiated CV i data with other manufacturing data, to improve yield and yield recovery while simultaneously reducing the overhead of manufacturing and test operations. The services we provide with this solution include data analysis, integration and configuration for MES or facility-wide deployment, tool connections, development of filter plans, data collection, management, and training. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI ) Solutions. Our DFI solutions are designed to enable our customers to achieve non-contact, inline electrical characterization and process control. DFI provides customers an ability to insert on-chip instruments with calibrated electrical responses directly in the product wafer without any die area penalty. In addition, DFI is designed to be high-throughput, enabling inline use. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods. The services we provide with this solution include design of the on-chip instruments tuned to our customers product and/or process specifics, design synthesis support for DFI instrument insertion, on-site tool support services, data analysis, and training Foundry Solution. We provide our foundry customers a complete DFI system for inline characterization and process control. This DFI infrastructure includes not only on-wafer IP, or on-chip instruments, but also the eProbe measurement tool and the Exensio Characterization software for DFI data processing and analysis. All aspects of the foundry solution are optimized for high data contrast, fast data handling, and comprehensive data analysis to provide foresight into downstream issues that could impact product yield, quality, or performance. 6 Table of Contents Fabless IP. We work closely with our fabless customers to tune the DFI on-chip instruments to reflect the key aspects of their product designs. We also provide proprietary software that is designed to efficiently distribute DFI filler cells across the die, for maximum issue coverage with fast readout. DFI is designed to enable every fabless company designing products at 28 nanometers and below to achieve better manufacturing results. Characterization Vehicle Solutions. We offer solutions that are designed to accelerate the efficiency of yield learning by shortening the learning cycle, learning more per cycle, and reducing the number of silicon wafers required in manufacturing processes. The services we provide with this solution include designing test structures and DOEs that are tuned to our customers product and/or process specifics, tester support, data analysis, and training. Our targeted offerings include: Process R&D. Our process R&D solutions are designed to help customers increase the robustness of their manufacturing processes by characterizing and reducing the variability of unit processes and device performance with respect to layout characteristics within anticipated process design rules. Process Integration and Yield Ramp. Our process integration and yield ramp solutions are designed to enable our customers to more quickly ramp the yield of new products early in the manufacturing process by characterizing the process-design interactions within each key process module, simulating product yield loss by process module, and prioritizing quantitative yield improvement by design block in real products. Design - Specific Characterization Vehicle Infrastructure. Leveraging our learnings from Characterization Vehicle test structures to accelerate foundry process development, we are now applying that technology to specific designs via CV Core. By implementing Characterization Vehicle test structures as physical IP embedded within a semiconductor customers design, we can collect differentiated data related to the performance and reliability of each chip. Using that data in our Exensio platform, we can deliver product-specific insights that enable them to prioritize engineering efforts and deliver improved and more predictable IC reliability and performance. Products Our solutions incorporate our various proprietary software and hardware products and other technologies, depending on the customers needs. The Exensio platform and modules are also offered on a standalone licensed basis. Our software and hardware products and other technologies include the following: Exensio Platform . Our Exensio platform addresses the big data manufacturing challenge of todays advanced process nodes and highly integrated products, by linking across YMS, FDC, test floor, and other enterprise data types. These data types include inline and end-of-line metrology, yield, parametric, performance, manufacturing consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. By providing a common environment for all these different data types from many different points in the manufacturing and test process, our Exensio platform enables customers to rapidly perform root cause diagnosis of yield, performance, and quality issues that impact manufacturing and test operations. This same platform also enables predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, process adjustments, PM scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer level and final test. Collectively, our Exensio platform enables real-time rapid diagnosis and understanding of key manufacturing and test metrics during both inline and end-of-line wafer processing, helping customers reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. The platform currently consists of five main modules in the field today. These modules can be used separately, or combined to provide seamless integration of these traditionally disparate data flows and applications. Certain Exensio functionality is available as either an on-premise installation or through our software-as-a-service (or SaaS) offering. The five main modules of the Exensio platform are as follows: Exensio Yield collects yield data and stores it in an embedded, analysis-ready database. This database provides a common environment and a consistent view of all product yield data, enabling product engineers to identify and analyze production yield, performance, reliability and other issues. The Exensio Yield module is designed to handle very large data sets, commonplace in the semiconductor industry, and, in combination with our proprietary analytics tools, aids engineers in diagnosing complex issues that negatively impact productivity, yield, and time-to-market for the products they develop. To support the multi-dimensional product requirements of our customers, the powerful, interactive visualization and analysis capabilities in Exensio Yield are highly flexible and user-configurable. 7 Table of Contents Exensio Control provides FDC capabilities for monitoring, alarming and control of manufacturing tool sets. These capabilities include proprietary data collection and analysis of tool sensor trace data and summary indicators to rapidly identify sources of process variations and manufacturing excursions. When used together with the above Exensio Yield module, the accretive data mining and correlation capabilities enable identification of tool level sources of yield loss and process variation that impact end of line product yield, performance and reliability. Exensio Test provides comprehensive data collection and analysis capabilities for data generated during manufacturing test operations. These capabilities include the overall optimization of test operations management, including improving test productivity, supporting test floor operations, and implementing adaptive test. This module also provides predictive insights based on proprietary analytics during test, assembly and packaging maximizing the efficiency of test operations, productivity improvements and yield reclamation. Exensio Characterization encapsulates test structure analysis functionality of both electrical and inline inspection data from our proprietary Characterization Vehicle test chips and DFI on-chip instruments. Exensio ALPS provides device manufacturers with the capability to link all device data, including fabrication and characterization data, from every step of the product life cycle. This includes data from manufacturing, test and assembly, final test, and field use. This proprietary data linkage also enables device manufacturers to maintain full traceability of their finished products back to the source wafer without the need for Electronic Chip IDs, or ECIDs. This capability is becoming an essential requirement for safety-critical market segments such as automotive and mil-aero. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI) System. Our DFI IP design engineers develop designs-of-experiments (or DOEs) to determine how IC design building blocks interact with the manufacturing process. These on-chip instruments are inserted into test and product wafers and measured on custom e-beam measurement hardware. The DFI system leverages our production-proven design and analysis infrastructure, and includes: DFI On-Chip Instruments. Our on-chip characterization instruments are developed with the same proprietary design software as our CV test chips and are tuned to capture key features of our customers product layouts using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software. These DFI instruments are based on our Characterization Vehicle technology and are designed to be placed in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die, without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses. eProbe Non-Contact E-Beam Tool . Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed to measure the electrical response of the DFI instruments. This new measure, which we call an Electrical Response Index (or ERI), allows for more precise inline characterization of design-process interactions. The second generation tool includes orders of magnitude advances in throughput and accuracy that now enable DFI on-chip instruments to be used for inline control for leading-edge semiconductor process nodes. Exensio Characterization Software. Exensio Characterization software, also a part of our Exensio platform, is designed to analyze the billions of measurements collected from DFI on-chip instruments using the eProbe tool. Characterization Vehicle Infrastructure. Our engineers develop a DOE to determine how IC design building blocks interact with the manufacturing process. Our software utilizes the DOE, in combination with our proprietary library of building blocks that highlight potential yield and performance issues, to generate CV test chip layouts. Our CV infrastructure includes: CV Test Chips. Our family of proprietary test chip products is run through the manufacturing process with intentional process modifications to explore the effects of potential process improvements given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customers process. Our full-reticle short-flow CV test chips provide a fast learning cycle for specific process modules and are fully integrated with third-party failure analysis and inspection tools for a complete diagnosis to understand root causes. Our Scribe CV products are inserted directly on customers product wafers and collect data about critical layers. Our DirectProbe CV test chips enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs by allowing our clients to measure components of actual product layout. 8 Table of Contents Exensio Characterization software. Exensio Characterization software, also a part of our Exensio platform, collects data from our CV test chips, enabling models of the performance effects of process variations on these design building blocks to be generated for use with our FIRE software. pdFasTest Electrical Tester. Our proprietary hardware system enables fast defect and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. This automated system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical measurements to test our CV test chips. FIRE Software. Our FIRE software analyzes an IC design to perform design attribute extraction and feature-based yield modeling to compute both systematic and random yield loss due to optical proximity effects, etch micro-lading, dishing in CM, and other basic process issues. FIRE Software is driven by a combination of industry-standard layout data and proprietary yield models created from our CV test chips described above. Template Technology. Our Template technology includes Templatyzer software and IP for identifying and developing a set of layout patterns that are tailored to a given manufacturing process and target product application, and checks the proposed designs against this set of patterns for optimal manufacturability. Customers Our existing customers include foundries, IDMs, fabless semiconductor design companies, OSATs, as well as some equipment manufacturers, including those that embed and distribute our Exensio ALPS products in their equipment. Our semiconductor customers targeted product segments vary significantly, including microprocessors, memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our solutions to the broader semiconductor market. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc., which, together with its subsidiaries, we collectively call GlobalFoundries, represented 37% of our revenues for 2018 and 40% of our revenues for 2017. GlobalFoundries and Samsung represented 41% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues for 2016. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2018, 2017, and 2016. Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues being recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example, the 28 or 14 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers default on contractual commitments or renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. For example, during the third quarter of 2018, a major customer publicly announced that it was indefinitely suspending the development and production of its 7nm technology node. This customers decision negatively impacted our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenues in the fourth quarter of 2018. We cannot assess the ultimate resolution of this non-cancellable contract at the current time, pending further discussion with the customer. We expect that Gainshare performance incentives revenues related to this contract will not be recognized in the long-term as Gainshare performance incentives revenues are based on future production of the customer. See the discussion in Risk Factors under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. International revenues accounted for approximately 60% of our total revenues for 2018 compared to 61% for 2017 and 64% for 2016. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers work sites for our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 11, Customer and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, Risk Factors. See our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II,