Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this Form 10-K, especially those contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The words may, anticipate, plan, continue, could, projected, expect, believe, intend, and assume, the negative of these terms and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and based on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to fiscal year apply to our fiscal year that ends on December 31. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. PART I Item 1. Business Business Overview PDF Solutions is a leading provider of electrical characterization and data analytics for process-design optimization and yield enhancement to improve our customers profitability. Our solutions target the value chain from technology development and the design of an integrated circuit (or IC) through volume manufacturing of that IC. Our solutions combine proprietary software, physical intellectual property (or IP) in the form of on-wafer instruments and cell libraries for IC designs, contact and non-contact electrical measurement tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We generate and analyze electrical characterization data to optimize process, design, and fabrication of semiconductor devices for high yield, low cost, and high performance. We monetize our solutions through contract revenue, a value-based royalty that we call a Gainshare performance incentive, and software and hardware licensing. The result of successfully implementing our solutions is the creation of value that can be measured in terms of higher yield, lower cost, and improved IC device and manufacturing performance. Our technologies and services have been sold to integrated device manufacturers, fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSAT), and system houses. The key benefits of our solutions and business model to our customers are: Bridging the Design and Manufacturing Interface. Our solutions are designed to predict and improve eventual product yield even before IC product design is complete, and thus transform the traditional design-to-silicon sequence into a concurrent process. By providing insight of a specific design in a given process, our customers are better positioned to optimize time-to-market, time-to-volume and manufacturing efficiencies. Our solutions thus enable our customers to quickly reach cost efficient volume, so that they are able to increase margins, improve their competitive position, and capture higher market share. For our foundry customers, this may mean shortening the time necessary for technology development and providing their fabless customers a higher yielding process, with improved electrical performance, sooner. For our integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs) and fabless customers, this could mean shortening the time for initial designs to meet performance requirements with fewer iterations. 4 Turn-Key, Tailored Solutions. Through organic development and targeted acquisition over more than 20 years, we have accumulated an impressive array of proprietary software, physical IP for IC designs, electrical measurement tools, and proven methodologies, all specifically geared toward providing a bridge between designers and manufacturers. Subsets of this array are selected to address each customers specific technical and business requirements. For example, an integrated yield ramp (or IYR) solution on a leading edge process node for a device manufacturer may include our electrical characterization infrastructure, analysis tools, and professional services to accelerate learning and reduce time-to-market. In contrast, a fabless customer designing a new product may use our proprietary on-wafer instruments and cell libraries design physical IP to enhance their design for manufacturability. Another example, a fabless in volume manufacturing may use our data analytic software tools, which are also available to their foundry partners, to monitor how the fabless designs are performing at foundry partners. Insight Across The Whole Electronic Supply Chain. Our data analytics, including for process control and assembly and test, are designed to provide our customers with insight into factors that affect yield and device performance at mass production through final packaging, enabling a lower total cost of goods sold. For example, our volume manufacturing solution may provide a foundry customer with the ability to proactively monitor process health to avoid potential yield problems. Fabless customers also benefit from an integrated insight into their supply chain effectiveness. Our long-term business objective is to enable our customers to optimize their processes, designs, and fabrication for high yield, low cost, and high performance, and to be the big data analytics supplier of choice for the electronic supply chain. To achieve this objective, we intend to: Increase IYR Adoption and Scope. In addition to deploying yield ramp solutions for leading-edge fabless and foundries, we intend to expand adoption on derivative processes of existing technology, mainstream foundries, and memory applications. We intend to focus on new entrants into the foundry and memory markets, in particular in China. This will enable us to continue to expand the Gainshare performance incentives component, aligning our financial success with that of our customers. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into a 14nm IYR engagement, with a long-term Gainshare performance incentive component, with a foundry customer in China for early technology development that includes DFM Template technology and our DFI solution. Further, we intend to continue to develop and enhance our big data analytics capability to further extract value for our customers out of the unique electrical characterization data generated in our IYR engagements. Position for DFI Success. We intend to demonstrate and validate the value of our DFI solution by expanding its use in both process development and volume production. We expect to achieve this by increasing the installed base of our first-generation, contactless measurement tool in our foundry customers early R&D programs and drive insertion of our on-chip instruments at an increasing number of IDM and fabless companies, on an increasing number of designs. For example, we have received orders and deployed our DFI eProbe 150 tool systems at two logic foundry customers and DFI on-chip instruments have been placed in customers designs at the 28 nanometer (nm) through 7 nm foundry logic process nodes. Finally, we intend to expand our DFI product offering with the development of the second-generation measurement tool targeted for in-line applications. Expand Software Customer Base. We intend to expand the customer base for our fully-integrated yield management and process control software solutions both vertically and horizontally. We intend to achieve horizontal expansion by deeper penetration of existing customers and the addition of new customers and additional applications for existing market segments. For example, in 2016, we added 13 new Exensio fabless and foundry customers. Our vertical expansion will be achieved through the expansion of new customers in new market segments such as test, assembly and system houses. For example, in 2016, we entered into a contract to deploy test and yield related Exensio software at our first significant OSAT customer. Expand Ecosystem. We intend to continue to extend and enhance our relationships with companies at various stages of the design-to-silicon process, such as process licensors, manufacturing and test equipment vendors, electronic design automation vendors, silicon IP providers, semiconductor foundries, and contract test and assembly houses. We believe these relationships will ultimately enhance the value and utility our solutions and help drive standardization on PDF Solutions technology. 5 Brief History PDF Solutions was incorporated in Pennsylvania in November 1992, and we reincorporated in California in November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. From 2000 through 2009, we expanded our technology footprint and our operations in various countries through acquisitions. From 2009 to the present, we have primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients to maximize Gainshare performance incentive revenues. Beginning in 2013, we leveraged our more than 20 years of yield simulation software and Characterization Vehicle test chip development and began new research and development on a solution for non-destructive in-line electrical characterization and process control for wafer inspection. The first version of this e-beam tool was commercialized in 2016, and we are currently focused on completing development of the second version. Headquartered in San Jose, California, PDF Solutions operates worldwide with additional entities and/or offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Industry Background Rapid technological innovation, with increasingly shorter product life cycles, now fuels the economic growth of the semiconductor industry. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, produced at high volume once products gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price and demand started to decrease near the end of the products life cycles. Now, companies often need to be the first to market and the first to sell the most volume when a product is first introduced so that they have performance and pricing advantages over their competition, or else they lose market opportunity and revenue. Increased IC complexity and compressed product lifecycles create significant challenges to achieve competitive initial yields and optimized performance. For example, it is not uncommon for an initial manufacturing run to yield only 20%, which means that 80% of the ICs produced are wasted. Yield improvement performance optimization and production efficiencies are critical drivers of IC companies financial results, because they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. Technology and Intellectual Property Protection We have developed proprietary technologies for yield simulation, analysis, loss detection, and improvement. The foundation for many of our solutions is our CV infrastructure (or CV i ) that enables our customers to electrically characterize the manufacturing process, and establish fail-rate information needed to calibrate manufacturing yield models, prioritize yield improvement activities and speed-up process learning-cycles. Our CV i includes proprietary Characterization Vehicle test chips, including designs of experiments and layout designs, and a proprietary and patented highly-parallel contact electrical functional and parametric-test system, comprised of hardware and software designed to provide an order-of-magnitude reduction in the time required to test our Characterization Vehicle test chips. Our DFI solution includes physical IP in the form of test structures specifically designed by our engineers for targeted fail modes and co-optimized to be efficiently measured by our non-contact electrical measurement tool both in test chips, including in scribe lines, and in the fill area of production wafers. In addition, our technology embodies many algorithms, which we have developed over the course of many years, and which are implemented in our products including Exensio , pdCV TM , FIRE, and Templatyzer TM , among others. Further, our IP includes methodologies that our implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers use of our CV test chips DFI solution, and technologies, quantify the yield-loss associated with each process module and design block, make wafer disposition decisions, control process equipment, simulate the impact of changes to the design and/or to the manufacturing process, and/or analyze the outcome of executing such changes. We continually enhance our core technologies through the codification of knowledge that we gain in our solution implementations. Our future success and competitive position rely to some extent upon our ability to protect these proprietary technologies and IP, to generate revenue for customers use of our solutions, and to prevent competitors from using our systems, methods, and technologies in their products. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, and patent, copyright, mask work, and trademark laws. We license our products and technologies pursuant to non-exclusive license agreements that impose restrictions on customers use. In addition, we seek to avoid disclosure of our trade secrets, including requiring employees, customers, and others with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us and restricting access to our source code. We also seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect our IP under patent laws and as of December 31, 2016, we held 71 U.S. patents. Our issued patents have expiration dates from 2019 through 2036. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. We also employ protection of our trademarks, with registration on marks including Characterization Vehicle, CV, eProbe, Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, the PDF Solutions logo. Design-to-silicon-yield TM , Design-for-Inspection, DFI, DirectProbe, DirectScan, FIRE, pdCV TM , Template TM , Templatyzer TM , and YieldAware TM are our common law trademarks of PDF Solutions or its subsidiaries. Products and Services Our solutions consist of integration engineering services, proprietary software, and other technologies designed to address our customers specific manufacturing and design issues. 6 Services and Solutions Manufacturing Process Solutions ( or MPS). The IC manufacturing process typically involves four sequential phases: research and development to establish unit manufacturing processes, such as units for the metal CMP or lithography processes; integration of these unit processes into functional modules, such as metal or contact modules; a yield ramp of lead products through the entire manufacturing line; and volume manufacturing of all products through the life of the process. We offer solutions targeted to each of these phases designed to accelerate the efficiency of yield learning by shortening the learning cycle, learning more per cycle, and reducing the number of silicon wafers required. Our targeted offerings include: Process R&D: Our process R&D solutions are designed to help customers increase the robustness of their manufacturing processes by characterizing and reducing the variability of unit processes and device performance with respect to layout characteristics within anticipated process design rules. Process Integration and Yield Ramp: Our process integration and yield ramp solutions are designed to enable our customers to more quickly ramp the yield of new products early in the manufacturing process by characterizing the process-design interactions within each key process module, simulating product yield loss by process module, and prioritizing quantitative yield improvement by design block in real products. Volume Manufacturing Solutions (or VMS). Our volume manufacturing solutions are designed to enable our customers to extend our yield ramp services through the life of the process by continuing to collect test data and equipment signals during production (from wafer fab through to packaged part) and improving yield while reducing the overhead of manufacturing separate test wafers. Our Exensio YieldAware solution combines software and services to enable customers to collect and combine product test data and equipment signals during production to improve yield while simultaneously reducing the overhead of manufacturing. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI) Solutions. Our DFI solutions are designed to enable our customers to achieve non-destructive inline electrical characterization and process control. DFI provides customers an ability to insert on-chip instruments with calibrated electrical responses directly in the product wafer without any die area penalty. In addition, DFI is designed to be high-throughput, enabling in-line use. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods. Foundry Solution: We provide our foundry customers a complete DFI system for inline characterization and process control. This DFI infrastructure includes not only on-wafer IP, or on-chip instruments, but also the eProbe measurement system and the Exensio -Char DFI software for data processing and analysis. The DFI on-chip instruments are co-optimized with the eProbe measurement tool for the best voltage contrast readout, and the Exensio -Char DFI software is optimized for fast handling and analysis of the huge eProbe data stream. Fabless IP: We work closely with our fabless customers to tune the DFI on-chip instruments to reflect the key aspects of their product designs. We also provide proprietary software that is designed to efficiently distribute DFI filler cells across the die, for maximum issue coverage with fast readout. DFI is designed to enable every fabless company designing products at 28 nanometers and below to achieve better manufacturing results. Design-for-Manufacturability (or DFM) Solutions. Our DFM solutions are designed to enable our customers to optimize yields, improve parametric performance, and reduce product ramp time by integrating manufacturability considerations into the design cycle before a design is sent to the mask shop to more quickly and cost-effectively manufacture IC products. We target these solutions to customers requirements by providing the following: DFM Solutions: DFM solutions include software, IP, CV infrastructure, and services designed to validate customers process design kit (or PDK) and to maximize functional and parametric yield improvements while achieving requirements for density or performance. A CV test chip optimized to the design style of an IC design provides any necessary design-specific parametric and functional yield models for the design style. Our software helps designers optimize the yield by using process-specific and design style-specific yield models and technology files that enable identification and implementation of IP design building block improvements that result in enhanced yield. 7 Template Technology Physical IP Solutions: Template physical IP solutions include Templatyzer software and IP for first identifying and developing a set of layout patterns that are optimized to a given manufacturing process and target product application and second checking proposed product layout designs against this set of patterns for optimal manufacturability. A complete characterization of all transistor and layout patterns used in these Template layouts can be performed with the CV infrastructure. These Template layouts serve as the building blocks for design organizations to construct standard cell libraries and larger physical IP blocks. Products Our Manufacturing Process, Volume Manufacturing, DFI, and DFM solutions incorporate the use of various elements of our software products and other technologies, depending on the customers needs. Our software products and other technologies include the following: Characterization Vehicle Infrastructure. Our test chip design engineers develop a design of experiments (or DOEs) to determine how IC design building blocks interact with the manufacturing process. Our CV software utilizes the DOE, as well as a library of building blocks that we know has potential yield and performance impact, to generate CV test chip layouts. Our CV infrastructure includes: CV Test Chips. Our family of proprietary test chip products is run through the manufacturing process with intentional process modifications to explore the effects of potential process improvements given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customers process. Our full-reticle short-flow CV test chips provide a fast learning cycle for specific process modules and are fully integrated with third-party failure analysis and inspection tools for complete diagnosis to root cause. Our Scribe CV products are inserted directly on customers product wafers and collect data from product wafers about critical layers. Our DirectProbe CV test chips enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs by allowing our clients to measure components of actual product layout. pdCV TM Analysis Software. Our proprietary software accumulates data from our CV test chips, enabling models of the performance effects of process variations on these design building blocks to be generated for use with our FIRE software. pdFasTest Electrical Test er . Our proprietary system enables fast defect and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. This automated system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical measurements to test our CV test chips. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI) Infrastructure. Our DFI IP design engineers develop DOEs to determine how IC design building blocks interact with the manufacturing process. These on-chip measurement instruments are inserted into test and product wafers and measured on custom e-beam measurement hardware. DFI leverages our field proven design and analysis infrastructure, and includes: DFI On-Chip Instruments. Our on-chip characterization instruments are developed with the same proprietary design software as our CV Test Chips and tuned to capture key features of our customers product layouts using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software. These DFI instruments are based on our Characterization Vehicle (CV) technology and are designed to be placed in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die, without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses. eProbe Contactless E-Beam Tool . Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed to measure the electrical response of the DFI instruments. This new measure, which we call an Electrical Response Index, or ERI, allows for more precise inline characterization of design-process interactions. Exensio Char DFI Software. Exensio Char DFI software, a part of our Exensio Big Data analytics platform, is designed to analyze the billions of measurements collected from DFI instruments using the eProbe Tool. FIRE Software. Our FIRE software analyzes an IC design to compute its systematic and random yield loss. FIRE software allows design attribute extraction and feature-based yield modeling. FIRE software takes as input a layout that is typically in industry standard format and proprietary yield models generated by running and testing our CV test chips. FIRE software is designed to estimate the yield loss due to optical proximity effects, etch micro-lading, dishing in CMP, and other basic process issues. 8 Template Technology. Our Template technology includes Templatyzer software and IP for identifying and developing a set of layout patterns that are tailored to a given manufacturing process and target product application and checking proposed designs against this set of patterns for optimal manufacturability. Exensio Enterprise-wide Platform . Our Exensio platform addresses the big data manufacturing challenge of todays advanced process nodes and highly integrated products, by linking across YMS, FDC, test floor, and other enterprise-wide data types. These data types include in-line and end-of-line metrology, yield, parametric, performance, manufacturing consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. This enables sensor level, root cause diagnosis of yield and performance issues that impact manufacturing, through building process models of these relationships. The on-line models then enable predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, process adjustments, PM scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer level and final test. The in-line, real-time decision-making based on these models is designed to reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. Our Exensio platform also enables more rapid diagnosis and understanding of yield loss and performance-limiting mechanisms identified at both in-line and end-of -line wafer processing, through application of the developed models. The platform currently consists of four main modules in the field today. These modules can be used separately, or combined to provide seamless integration of these traditionally disparate dataflows and applications. Additionally, specific Exensio functionality is available as either an on-premise installation or through the software as a service, or SaaS, offering. Exensio-Yield , collects yield data, then loads and stores it in an analysis-ready database. This enables product engineers to identify and analyze production yield, performance, reliability and other issues. The Exensio-Yield module is designed to handle very large data sets, to efficiently improve productivity, yield and time-to-market at our customers sites. Exensio-Yield contains powerful, interactive visualization and analysis template capabilities, which provide flexibility to address our customers requirements. Exensio-Yield advanced components include extra proprietary yield analysis software tools that aid in the diagnosis of more complex yield issues. This includes defect analysis tools, spatial signature analysis, excursion and event monitoring, workflows, and data-mining capabilities. Exensio-Control , provides FDC capabilities for monitoring, alarming and control of manufacturing tool sets. These capabilities include analyzing tool sensor trace data and summary indicators to rapidly identify sources of process variations and manufacturing excursions. This is achieved by monitoring these equipment parameters through proprietary data collection and analysis features. When included with the above Exensio-Yield module, data mining and correlation capabilities enable identification of tool level sources of yield loss and process variation, that are impacting end of line product yield, performance and reliability. Exensio-Test, provides testing and analysis capability. These capabilities include driving test productivity, test operations management and optimization, supporting test floor operations, as well as implementing adaptive test and analysis technologies. It also views diagnostic and predictive information during test, assembly and packaging maximizing test operations, productivity and yields. Exensio-Char, encapsulates test structure analysis functionality of both electrical and in - line inspection data from PDF Solutions proprietary Characterization Vehicle (CV) test chips and DFI on-chip instruments. With the exception of Exensio-Yield, Exensio-Control, Exensio-Test and Exensio-Char, the primary distribution method for our software and technologies is through our manufacturing process and volume manufacturing solutions. Although, we have in the past and may in the future, separately license these and other technologies. Though these modules are primarily licensed separately, they may also be distributed within solutions as a bundle. Customers Our existing customers are foundries, integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), and fabless semiconductor design companies. Our customers targeted product segments vary significantly, including microprocessors, memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. Through our acquisition of Salland assets and Syntricity in 2015, we expanded our customers to include off-shore assembly and testing facilities, as well as equipment manufacturers. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions to the broader semiconductor market. 9 Global Foundries Inc. (Global Foundries) and Samsung Electronics (Samsung) represented 41% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues for 2016. Global Foundries and Samsung represented 53% and 12%, respectively, of our revenues for 2015. Global Foundries, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Samsung represented 52%, 16% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues for 2014. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2016, 2015, and 2014. Although a substantial portion of our total revenue is concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and/or Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 20 nanometer node. See the discussion in Risk Factors under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. International revenues accounted for approximately 64% of our total revenues for 2016 compared to 54% for 2015 and 56% for 2014. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers work sites for our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 8, Customer and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, Risk Factors. See our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II,