Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2016. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We analyze our customers IC design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. The variable fee, or what we call Gainshare, usually depends on our achieving certain yield targets by a deadline. Variable fees are currently typically tied to wafer volume on the node size of the manufacturing facility where we performed the yield improvement solutions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend Consistent with the trend since 2010, we expect that the largest logic foundries will continue to invest significantly in leading edge nodes and capacity throughout 2016. Leading foundries continue to invest in new technologies such as multi-patterned lithography and 3-D transistor architecture, which provide opportunities to increase our business. The capacity utilization of our customers on 28nm declined during 2015, which caused our Gainshare revenue to decline significantly in the same period. Capacity utilization on 28nm has been improving throughout 2016 after hitting bottom at the end of 2015. We expect that improvement to continue for the foreseeable future. 17 Generally, the demand for consumer electronics and communications devices continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering cost per transistor. As a result, both logic and memory manufacturers have migrated to more and more advanced manufacturing nodes, capable of integrating more devices with higher performance, higher density, and lower power. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that as volume production of deep submicron ICs continues to grow, the difficulties of integrating IC designs with their respective processes and ramping new manufacturing processes will create a greater need for products and services that address the yield loss and escalating cost issues the semiconductor industry is facing today and will face in the future. Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 20 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, "Customers," on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," on pages 12 through 19 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended September 30, 2016, were as follows: Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2016, were $27.3 million, an increase of $3.4 million, or 14%, compared to $23.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016, was $18.6 million, an increase of $1.3 million, or 8%, when compared to Design-to-silicon yield solutions revenue of $17.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions was primarily the result of more billable hours to revenue generating projects in the period due to increased business activity and an increase in the revenue from our Exensio big data solution. Gainshare performance incentives revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016, was $8.7 million, an increase of $2.1 million, or 31%, compared to $6.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in revenue from Gainshare performance incentives was primarily the result of higher net volumes reported at 28nm and an increase in the number of engagements contributing to 14nm gainshare. Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $1.9 million, compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to a $2.2 million increase in gross margin due to the overall increase in revenue and favorable mix shift between Design-to-silicon yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentive revenue, and a $0.1 million decrease in tax provision, offset by a $1.7 million increase in operating expense, which was primarily driven by the development activity related to our Design-For-Inspection (DFI) solution development program and a $0.2 million unfavorable change in interest and other income (expense). Net income per basic and diluted share was $0.06 for the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.05 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. 18 Financial highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, were as follows: Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, were $79.0 million, an increase of $5.1 million, or 7%, compared to $73.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was $57.7 million, an increase of $8.1 million, or 16%, when compared to Design-to-silicon yield solutions revenue of $49.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions was primarily the result of more billable hours to revenue-generating projects in the period due to increased business activity and an increase in the revenue from our Exensio big data solution. Gainshare performance incentives revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was $21.3 million, a decrease of $3.0 million, or 12%, compared to $24.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease in revenue from Gainshare performance incentives was primarily the result of lower net volumes reported at 28nm engagements, partially offset by higher gainshare from 14nm engagements. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was $6.2 million, compared to $9.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to a $7.4 million increase in operating expense, which was primarily driven by the development activity related to our DFI solution development program and a $0.6 million unfavorable change in interest and other income (loss) which was due to foreign exchange rate movement, partially offset by a $1.8 million increase in gross margin due to the increase in revenues and a $2.7 million decrease in income tax provision due to the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit and a decrease in level of income. Net income per basic and diluted share was $0.20 and $0.19, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.31 and $0.30, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Critical Accounting Policies There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies. Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from two sources: Design-to-silicon-yield solutions, which include services and software licenses, and Gainshare performance incentives. Design-to-Silicon-Yield Solutions Revenue that is derived from Design-to-silicon-yield solutions comes from services and software licenses. We recognize revenue for Design-to-silicon-yield solutions as follows: We generate a significant portion of our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue from fixed-price solution implementation service contracts delivered over a specific period of time. These contracts require reliable estimation of costs to perform obligations and the overall scope of each engagement. Revenue under projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using percentage of completion method of contract accounting based on costs or labor-hours input method, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Losses on solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated. If we do not accurately estimate the resources required or the scope of work to be performed, or do not manage the projects properly within the planned period of time or satisfy our obligations under contracts, resulting contract margins could be materially different than those anticipated when the contracts were executed. Any such reductions in contract margin could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Revenue under certain time and materials contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as the services are performed. 19 We defer certain pre-contract costs incurred for specific anticipated contracts. Deferred costs consist primarily of direct costs to provide solution implementation services in relation to the specific anticipated contracts. We recognize such costs as a component of cost of revenues, the timing of which is dependent upon persuasive evidence of contract arrangement assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We also defer costs from arrangements that required us to defer the revenues, typically due to revenue recognition from multi-element arrangements or from contracts subject to customer acceptance. These costs are recognized in proportion to the related revenue. At the end of reporting period, we evaluate its deferred costs for their probable recoverability. We recognize impairment of deferred costs when it is determined that the costs no longer have future benefits and are no longer recoverable. On occasion, we license our software products as a component of our fixed price service contracts. In such instances, the software products are licensed to customers over a specified term of the agreement with support and maintenance to be provided at each customer's option over the license term. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our determination of the fair value of each deliverable. In general, vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) does not exist for our solution implementation services and software products and because our services and products include our unique technology, we are not able to determine third-party evidence of selling price (TPE). Therefore, in such circumstances, we use best estimated selling prices (BESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. In determining BESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at BESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. After fair value is established for each deliverable, the total transaction amount is allocated to each deliverable based upon its relative fair value. Fees allocated to solution implementation services are recognized using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Fees allocated to software and related support and maintenance are recognized under software revenue recognition guidance. We also license our software products separately from our solution implementation services. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, software license revenue is recognized under the residual method when (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the fee is fixed or determinable, (4) collectability is probable, and (5) the arrangement does not require services that are essential to the functionality of the software. When arrangements include multiple elements such as support and maintenance, consulting (other than for our fixed price solution implementations), installation, and training, revenue is allocated to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by our VSOE and such services are recorded as services revenues. VSOE for maintenance is generally established based upon negotiated renewal rates while VSOE for consulting, installation, and training services is established based upon our customary pricing for such services when sold separately. When software is licensed for a specified term, fees for support and maintenance are generally bundled with the license fee over the entire term of the contract. The Company is unable to establish VSOE of fair value for maintenance services that are generally bundled with term licenses. In these cases, the Company recognizes revenue ratably over the term of the contract. Revenue from Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) that allows for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software is accounted for as a subscription and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is first made available to customers. Revenue for software licenses with extended payment terms is not recognized in excess of amounts due. For software license arrangements that require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, the software license revenue is recognized as services are performed using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting, and such revenue is recorded as services revenue. 20 Deferred revenues consist primarily of amounts invoiced in advance of revenue recognition and are recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Deferred revenues that will be recognized during the succeeding 12-month period are recorded as current deferred revenues and the remaining portion is recorded as non- current deferred revenues. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a contract to provide yield improvement services, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by us of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentives component where the customer may pay a contingent variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended. Revenues derived from Gainshare performance incentives represent profit sharing and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels established in related solution implementation service contracts. Gainshare performance incentives periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and therefore have no cost to us. Due to the uncertainties surrounding attainment of such operational levels, we recognize Gainshare performance incentives revenues (to the extent of completion of the related solution implementation services) upon receipt of performance reports or other related information from our customers supporting the determination of amounts and probability of collection. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors which are outside our control, which can include among others, continued production of the related ICs by our customers, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing provisions for Gainshare performance incentives. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the awards fair value and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods, generally four years. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We have elected to use the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates various assumptions including volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of stock options. The expected life of an award is based on historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the stock awards granted to employees. The interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury yield curve rates appropriate for the expected life of stock options. Income Taxes We are required to assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and if we believe that they are not likely to be realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets then, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The valuation allowance was approximately $6.5 million and $6.2 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses related to acquisition that we currently do not believe to be more likely than not to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time no longer morelikely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will increase in the period in which we make such determination. Our income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of operations. Software Development Costs Internally developed software includes software developed to meet our internal needs to provide solution implementation services to our end-customers. These capitalized costs consist of internal compensation related costs and external direct costs incurred during the application development stage and are amortized over their useful lives, generally six years. 21 The costs to develop software that is marketed externally have not been capitalized as we believe our current software development process is essentially completed concurrent with the establishment of technological feasibility. As such, all related software development costs are expensed as incurred and included in research and development expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If further testing is required, we perform a two-step process. The first step involves comparing the fair value of its reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is performed by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill in the reporting unit to its implied fair value. An impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value. For the purpose of impairment testing, we have determined that we have one reporting unit. There was no impairment of goodwill for the period ended September 30, 2016. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property and equipment and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment . For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, there was no impairment related to our long-lived assets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by the line items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Three Months Ended September 30 , Nine Months Ended September 30 , 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenues: Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 68 % 72 % 73 % 67 % Gainshare performance incentives 32 28 27 33 Total revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs of design-to-silicon-yield solutions 42 43 41 39 Amortization of acquired technology Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 42 43 41 39 Gross profit 58 57 59 61 Operating expenses: Research and development 26 22 26 19 Selling, general and administrative 21 24 20 20 Amoritization of other acquired intangible assets Total operating expenses 47 46 46 39 Income from operations 11 11 13 22 Interest and other income (expense), net Income before taxes 11 11 13 22 Income tax provision 4 5 5 9 Net income 7 % 6 % 8 % 13 % 22 Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Revenues 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 18,552 $ 17,246 $ 1,306 8 % Gainshare performance incentives 8,707 6,632 2,075 31 % Total revenues $ 27,259 $ 23,878 $ 3,381 14 % Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software licenses, provided during our customer yield improvement engagements as well as during solution product sales. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue increased $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to an increase in the revenue from fixed fee integrated solutions, the result of more billable hours to revenue-generating projects in the period due to increased business activity and an increase in the revenue from our Exensio big data solution. Our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets including photovoltaic and LED, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business or, in the case of a time and materials contract, may take advantage of contractual provisions that permit the suspension of contracted work for a period if their business experiences a financial hardship. Gainshare Performance Incentives . Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent profit sharing and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives increased $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. Gainshare performance incentives was primarily the result of higher net volumes reported at 28nm and an increase in the number of engagements contributing to 14nm gainshare. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing provisions for Gainshare performance incentives. Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,366 $ 10,172 $ 1,194 12 % Amortization of acquired technology 86 80 6 8 % Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,452 $ 10,252 $ 1,200 12 % 23 Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services and costs recognized in connection with licensing our software. Services costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software sold in conjunction with our software products. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $1.2 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a $0.8 million increase in personnel cost driven by hiring in Asia and world-wide merit increases, a $0.3 million increase in subcontractor expense due to increased revenues, a $0.2 million increase in depreciation expense, a $0.2 million increase in facility cost, and a $0.1 million increase in travel expense, offset by a $0.4 million decrease in equipment costs. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was due to the amortization of acquired technology from the Syntricity acquisition. Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Research and Development 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 7,017 $ 5,173 $ 1,844 36 % Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses increased $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a $0.9 million personnel-related expense due to higher headcount and world-wide merit increases, a $0.7 million increase in subcontractor expense, a $0.1 million increase in lab supplies, and a $0.2 million increase in travel expense, offset by $0.1 million decrease in acquisition costs related to Syntricity acquisition in the prior year. The increased investment in research and development is primarily driven by continued development activity related to our DFI solution development program. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of when we hire personnel as a result of the size and the timing of product development projects. Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Selling, General and Administrative 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 5,548 $ 5,665 $ (117 ) (2 )% Selling, General and Administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in acquisition-related costs related to Syntricity acquisition in the prior year, offset by a $0.4 million increase in personnel-related expense as a result of headcount increases and world-wide merit increases, and a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor costs. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 106 $ 89 $ 17 19 % Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets . Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. The amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the three months ended September 30, 2016 is related to amortization of acquired intangible assets from the Syntricity acquisition. Three Months Ended September 30 , $ % Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (101 ) $ 64 $ (165 ) (258 )% 24 Interest and Other Income (expense), net . Interest and other income (expense), net changed $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The change was primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements. Three Months Ended September 30, $ % Income Tax Provision 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Income tax provision $ 1.145 $ 1,269 $ (124 ) (10 )% Income Tax Provision. Income tax provision decreased $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to primarily due to the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit. Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Revenues 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 57,704 $ 49,557 $ 8,147 16 % Gainshare performance incentives 21,324 24,348 (3,024 ) (12 )% Total $ 79,028 $ 73,905 $ 5,123 7 % Design-to-Silicon-Yield Solutions . Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue increased $8.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to an increase in the revenue from fixed fee integrated solutions, the result of more billable hours to revenue-generating projects in the period due to increased business activity and an increase in the revenue from our Exensio big data solution. Gainshare Performance Incentives . Revenue derived from gainshare performance incentives decreased $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of lower net volumes reported at 28nm engagements, partially offset by higher gainshare from 14nm engagements. Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 2016 2015 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 32,034 $ 28,863 $ 3,171 11 % Amortization of acquired technology 278 80 198 248 % Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 32,312 $ 28,943 $ 3,369 12 % Costs of Design-to-Silicon-Yield Solutions. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions increased $3.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to a $2.1 million increase in personnel-related costs, driven by hiring in Asia and world-wide merit increases, a $0.5 increase in million subcontractor costs, a $0.4 million increase in depreciation expense related to our test equipment, a $0.9 million increase in facility expense, offset by a $0.5 million decrease in equipment costs. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was due to the amortization of acquired technology from the Syntricity acquisition. Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Research and Development 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 20,388 $ 13,698 $ 6,690 49 % 25 Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $6.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a $3.4 million increase in personnel-related expense due to a higher headcount and world-wide merit increases, a $2.1 million increase in subcontractor expenses, a $0.7 million increase in facility expense, $0.2 million increase in lab supplies, $0.3 million increase in travel expense and a $0.1 million increase in depreciation expense, offset by a $0.1 million decrease in acquisition costs. The increased investment in research and development is primarily driven by a continued development activity related to our DFI solution development program. Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Selling, General and Administrative 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 15,766 $ 15,336 $ 430 3 % Selling, General and Administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in personnel-related expense as a result of increased headcount from Syntricity acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2015, hiring in our software solution business and world-wide merit increases, a $0.3 million increase in subcontractor expense, a $0.2 million increase in facility expense, a $0.1 million increase in accounting and legal expense, a $0.1 million increase in recruiting expense, offset by a $1.2 million decrease in acquisition costs relating to the Syntricity acquisition in the prior year and a $0.2 million decrease in travel expense. Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 340 $ 89 $ 251 282 % The amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 is related to amortization of acquired intangible assets from the Syntricity acquisition. Nine Months Ended September 30 , $ % Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (388 ) $ 166 $ (554 ) (334 )% Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net . Interest and other income (expense) changed $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The change was primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements. Nine Months Ended September 30, $ % Income Tax Provision 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Income tax provision $ 3,668 $ 6,395 $ (2,727 ) (43 )% Income Tax Provision. Income tax provision decreased $2.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to the permanent reinstatement of the U.S. federal research tax credit and a decrease in level of income. 26 Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities was $0.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. This resulted from net income of $6.2 million, an adjustment of $10.1 million for non-cash charges and a cash decrease of $16.5 million reflected in the net change of operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $7.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million, amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.6 million, a loss on disposal of property and equipment of $0.1 million and deferred taxes of $0.1 million, a tax benefit related to stock-based compensation of $1.0 million, partially offset by tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock awards and units of $1.2 million, an excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation of $1.0 million, a $0.1 million reversal of allowance for doubtful accounts and $0.1 million unrealized gain from foreign currency forward contract. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $10.5 million increase in accounts receivable, a $9.3 million increase in prepaid expense and other assets due to the increase in the long-term unbilled portion of two of the Company's Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts, a $1.2 million decrease in billing in excess of recognized revenues, offset by a $3.9 million increase in deferred revenue, a $0.3 million increase in accrued compensation and related benefits and a $0.1 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. Cash flows provided by operating activities was $22.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. This resulted from net income of $9.6 million, adjustment of $10.3 million for non-cash charges and a cash increase of $2.2 million reflected in the net change of operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $7.1 million, deferred taxes of $1.6 million, tax benefit related to a stock-based compensation plan of $1.8 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.9 million, accrued contingent earn-out payments of $0.5 million, and amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.2 million, partially offset by excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation of $1.7 million and tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock awards and units of $1.1 million. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $6.3 million decrease in accounts receivable, primarily driven by strong collections, a $0.8 million net increase in deferred revenue, a $0.6 million increase in accrued and other liabilities, and a $0.1 million increase in billings in excess of recognized revenues, offset by a $0.3 million decrease in accounts payable, $1.9 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, driven by the payment of variable compensation during the period, and a $3.4 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets. The $7.2 million combined cash flow increase resulting from the decrease in accounts receivable, the increase in deferred revenue and the increase in billings in excess of recognized revenues, was primarily due to the timing of billing milestones and payments received Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities of for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of $8.9 million payment for capital expenditures, primarily related to our DFI test equipment. Cash flows used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 of $9.2 million consisted of $4.0 million payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment and $5.2 million payments for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities of $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, consisted primarily of $1.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, $1.6 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a $1.0 million of excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation, offset by $2.2 million of cash used to repurchase 149,457 shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.57 per share. Cash flows used in financing activities of $2.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, consisted primarily of $4.9 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, $1.4 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and $1.7 million of excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation, offset by $9.6 million of cash used to repurchase 636,996 shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.09 per share. Liquidity As of September 30, 2016, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $150.0 million, compared with $148.8 million as of December 31, 2015. Cash and cash equivalents were $118.5 million as of September 30, 2016, compared to $126.2 million as of December 31, 2015. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $2.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the foreseeable future. 27 Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of September 30, 2016: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations (1) 2016 (remaining three months) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations $ 516 $ 1,737 $ 1,089 $ 265 $ 196 $ 62 $ 3,865 (1) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.9 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.