Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2017. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We analyze our customers IC design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. The variable fee, or what we call Gainshare, usually depends on our achieving certain yield targets by a deadline. Variable fees are currently typically tied to wafer volume on the node size of the manufacturing facility where we performed the yield improvement solutions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend Consistent with the trend since 2010, we expect that the largest logic foundries will continue to invest significantly in leading edge nodes and capacity throughout 2017. Leading foundries continue to invest in new technologies such as multi-patterned lithography and 3-D transistor architecture. In addition, China s investment in semiconductors should accelerate the growth of the industry in the next few years. These provide opportunities to increase our business. Capacity utilization for 28nm logic thus far in 2017 has been lower overall, and mixed across foundries. We believe that industry 28nm utilization will increase during the remainder of 2017, and additional China 28nm production. 14nm logic production is also expected to increase in 2017. We expect our Gainshare results to be consistent with those general market trends. Gainshare revenue will continue to fluctuate quarter to quarter despite these utilization trends as our Gainshare revenue depends on many factors, including the average selling price of wafers subject to Gainshare and volume. Generally, the demand for consumer electronics and communications devices continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering cost per transistor. As a result, both logic and memory manufacturers have migrated to more and more advanced manufacturing nodes, capable of integrating more devices with higher performance, higher density, and lower power. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that as volume production of deep submicron ICs continues to grow, the difficulties of integrating IC designs with their respective processes and ramping new manufacturing processes will create a greater need for products and services like ours that address the yield loss and escalating cost issues the semiconductor industry is facing today and will face in the future. 18 Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 20 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, Customers, on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 13 through 20 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended June 30, 2017, were as follows: Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2017, were $24.3 million, a decrease of $2.4 million, or 9%, compared to $26.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017, was $16.5 million, a decrease of $4.1 million, or 20%, when compared to Design-to-silicon yield solutions revenue of $20.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions was primarily due to a delay in purchases by new and existing customers . Gainshare performance incentives revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017, was $7.8 million, an increase of $1.7 million, or 27%, compared to $6.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016. The increase in revenue from Gainshare performance incentives was primarily the result of higher Gainshare from 14nm volumes, partially offset by lower Gainshare from 28nm volumes. Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was $0.2 million, compared to net income of $2.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to a $3.1 million decrease in gross margin due to the lower revenues and an increase in cost of design-to-silicon-yield solutions and a $1.3 million increase in operating expense, primarily driven by the continued activity related to our development of our Design-For-Inspection (DFI) solution, offset by a $2.4 million decrease in tax provision primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 as well as the decrease in level of income. Net income per basic and diluted share was $0.01 for the three months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.07 for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Financial highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2017, were as follows: Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2017, were $48.6 million, a decrease of $3.2 million, or 6%, compared to $51.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2017, was $36.2 million, a decrease of $3.0 million, or 8%, when compared to Design-to-silicon yield solutions revenue of $39.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions was primarily due to a delay in purchases by new and existing customers. Gainshare performance incentives revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2017, was $12.4 million, a decrease of $0.2 million, or 2%, compared to $12.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in revenue from Gainshare performance incentives was primarily the result of lower Gainshare at 28nm volumes, not yet fully offset by higher Gainshare at 14nm volumes . Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2017, was $0.7 million, compared to $4.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to a $5.1 million decrease in gross margin due to the lower revenues, an increase in cost of design-to-silicon-yield solutions, and a $3.0 million increase in operating expense, primarily driven by the continued activity related to our development of our DFI solution, offset by a $4.8 million decrease in tax provision primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 as well as the decrease in level of income. 19 Net income per basic and diluted share was $0. 02 for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.13 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies. Please refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Design-to-silicon-yield Solutions and Gainshare performance incentives. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions Revenues that are derived from Design-to-silicon-yield solutions come from services and software and hardware licenses. We recognize revenue for each element of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions as follows: We generate a significant portion of our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue from fixed-price solution implementation service contracts delivered over a specific period of time. These contracts require reliable estimation of costs to perform obligations and the overall scope of each engagement. Revenue under project based contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using percentage of completion method of contract accounting based on costs or labor-hours input method, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated. Revenue under time and materials contracts for solution implementation services are recognized as the services are performed. On occasion, we license our software products as a component of our fixed-price service contracts. In such instances, the software products are licensed to customers over a specified term of the agreement with support and maintenance to be provided, if applicable, over the license term. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by the Company s judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our determination of the fair value of each deliverable. In general, vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) does not exist for our solution implementation services and software products and because our services and products include our unique technology, we are not able to determine third-party evidence of selling price (TPE). Therefore, in such circumstances we use best estimated selling prices (BESP) in the allocation of arrangement consideration. In determining BESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at BESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. After fair value is established for each deliverable, the total transaction amount is allocated to each deliverable based upon its relative selling price. Fees allocated to solution implementation services are recognized using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting. Fees allocated to software and related support and maintenance are recognized under software revenue recognition guidance. In some instances, we also license our DFI system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. We currently do not have VSOE for our DFI system, thus we use either TPE or BESP in the allocation of arrangement consideration. 20 We defer certain pre-contract costs incurred for specific anticipated contracts. Deferred costs consist primarily of direct costs to provide solution implementation services in relation to the specific anticipated contracts. We recognize such costs as a component of cost of revenues, the timing of which is dependent upon persuasive evidence of contract arrangement assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We also defer costs from arrangements that required us to defer the revenues, typically due to revenue recognition from multi-element arrangements or from contracts subject to customer acceptance. These costs are recognized in proportion to the related revenue. At the end of reporting period, we evaluate its deferred costs for their probable recoverability. We recognize impairment of deferred costs when it is determined that the costs no longer have future benefits and are no longer recoverable. We also license our software products separately from solution implementations. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, software license revenue is recognized under the residual method when (l) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the fee is fixed or determinable, (4) collectability is probable, and (5) the arrangement does not require services that are essential to the functionality of the software. When arrangements include multiple elements such as support and maintenance, consulting (other than for our fixed price solution implementations), installation, and training, revenue is allocated to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by our VSOE and such services are recorded as services revenue. VSOE for maintenance is generally established based upon negotiated renewal rates while VSOE for consulting, installation, and training services is established based upon the our customary pricing for such services when sold separately. When software is licensed for a specified term, fees for support and maintenance are generally bundled with the license fee over the entire term of the contract. We are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for maintenance services that are generally bundled with term licenses. In these cases, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the contract. For multiple-element arrangements containing non-software services, the Company: (1) determines whether each element constitutes a separate unit of accounting; (2) determines the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of VSOE, TPE or BESP, as applicable; and (3) allocates the total price to each separate unit of accounting based on the relative selling price method. An element constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the delivered item has standalone value and delivery of the undelivered element is probable and within our control. For multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software elements, we allocate revenue to software or software-related elements as a group and any non-software elements separately based on the selling price hierarchy of VSOE, TPE or BESP. Once revenue is allocated to software or software-related elements as a group, we recognize revenue in conformance with software revenue accounting guidance. Revenue is recognized when revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. Revenue from software-as-a-service (or SaaS) that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. Revenue for software licenses with extended payment terms is not recognized in excess of amounts due. For software license arrangements that require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, the software license revenue is recognized as services are performed using the percentage of completion method of contract accounting, and such revenue is recorded as services revenue. Deferred revenues consist substantially of amounts invoiced in advance of revenue recognition and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Deferred revenues that will be recognized during the succeeding 12 month period is recorded as current deferred revenues and the remaining portion is recorded as non- current deferred revenues. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a contract to provide yield improvement services, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by us of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer may pay a contingent variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives represents profit sharing and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels established in related solution implementation service contracts. Gainshare performance incentives periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and therefore have virtually no cost to us. Due to the uncertainties surrounding attainment of such operational levels, we recognize Gainshare performance incentives revenue (to the extent of completion of the related solution implementation contract) upon receipt of performance reports or other related information from the customer supporting the determination of amounts and probability of collection. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the award s fair value and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods, generally four years. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 21 We have elected to use the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates various assumptions including volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of stock options. The expected life of an award is based on historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the stock awards granted to employees. The interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury yield curve rates appropriate for the expected life of stock options. Income Taxes We are required to assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and if we believe that they are not likely to be realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets then, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision (benefit) in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The valuation allowance was approximately $6.5 million and $6.8 million as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses related to an acquisition that we currently do not believe to be more likely than not to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time no longer morelikely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will increase in the period in which we make such determination. Our income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of operations. At June 30, 2017, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings of approximately $6.7 million from the Companys international subsidiaries since these earnings have been, and under current plans will continue to be, permanently reinvested outside the United States. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the unrecognized tax liability at this time. Software Development Costs Internally developed software includes software developed to meet our internal needs to provide solution implementation services to our end-customers. These capitalized costs consist of internal compensation related costs and external direct costs incurred during the application development stage and are amortized over their useful lives, generally six years. The costs to develop software that is marketed externally have not been capitalized as we believe our current software development process is essentially completed concurrent with the establishment of technological feasibility. As such, all related software development costs are expensed as incurred and included in research and development expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If further testing is required, we perform a two-step process. The first step involves comparing the fair value of its reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the test is performed by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill in the reporting unit to its implied fair value. An impairment charge is recognized for the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value. For the purpose of impairment testing, we have determined that we have one reporting unit. There was no impairment of goodwill for the period ended June 30, 2017. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property and equipment and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment . For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. During the three months ended June 30, 2017, there was no impairment related to our long-lived assets. 22 Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by the line items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenues: Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 68 % 77 % 74 % 76 % Gainshare performance incentives 32 23 26 24 Total revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs of design-to-silicon-yield solutions 47 40 47 40 Amortization of acquired technology Total cost of design-to-silicon-yield solutions 47 40 47 40 Gross profit 47 60 53 60 Operating expenses: Research and development 30 27 30 26 Selling, general and administrative 26 19 25 20 Amoritization of other acquired intangible assets Total operating expenses 56 46 55 46 Income (loss) from operations (3 ) 14 (2 ) 14 Interest and other income (expense), net (1 ) (1 ) Income (loss) before taxes (3 ) 14 (3 ) 13 Income tax provision (benefit) (4 ) 6 (4 ) 5 Net income 1 % 8 % 1 % 8 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Three Months Ended June 30 , % Revenues 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 16,500 $ 20,574 $ (4,074 ) (20 )% Gainshare performance incentives 7,789 6,114 1,675 27 % Total revenues $ 24,289 $ 26,688 $ (2,399 ) (9 )% Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue is derived from services (including services from yield solutions, design for inspection solutions, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software and or system licenses, provided during our customer engagements as well as during solution product sales. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue decreased $4.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a delay in purchases by new and existing customers . Our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business or, in the case of a time and materials contract, may take advantage of contractual provisions that permit the suspension of contracted work for a period if their business experiences a financial hardship. 23 Gainshare Performance Incentives . Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent profit sharing and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives increased $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was the result of higher Gainshare from 14nm volumes, partially offset by a decrease in Gainshare from 28nm volumes. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Three Months Ended June 30 , % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,283 $ 10,558 $ 725 7 % Amortization of acquired technology 96 96 - % Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 11,379 $ 10,654 $ 725 7 % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions . Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of service and software licenses costs. Service costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software used by the Company in providing services to our customers in solution engagements, or sold in conjunction with our software products. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions increased $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in personnel-related cost driven by hiring in Asia and world-wide merit increases, a $0.1 million increase in subcontractor expense, and a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense of test equipment, partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in travel expense and a $0.1 million decrease in facility costs. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 remained the same at $0.1 million. Three Months Ended June 30 % Research and Development 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 7,276 $ 7,060 $ 216 3 % Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses increased $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a $0.3 million personnel-related expense due to higher headcount and world-wide merit increases, offset by a $0.1 million decrease in subcontractor expense. The increased investment in research and development is primarily driven by continued development activity related to our DFI solution. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. Three Months Ended June 30 , $ % Selling, General and Administrative 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 6,195 $ 5,094 $ 1,101 22 % Selling, General and Administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a $0.3 million increase in personnel-related expense due world-wide merit increases and hiring of an executive, a $0.4 million increase in accounting and legal expense, primarily a result of the new system implementation and increased legal activities related to Kinesys asset purchase transactions, a $0.3 million increase in allowance for doubtful account due to an increase in accounts receivable balance and a $0.1 million increase in travel expense. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. 24 Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets . Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. The amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the three months ended June 30, 2017 remained flat at $0.1 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. Interest and Other Income (expense), net . The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net from a $51,000 income for the three months ended June 30, 2016 to a $27,000 expense for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements. Three Months Ended June 30 , $ % Income Tax Provision (benefit) 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Income tax provision (benefit) $ (815 ) $ 1,579 $ (2,394 ) (152 )% Income Tax Provision (benefit). The decrease in income tax provision (benefit) from $1.6 million expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $0.8 million benefit for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to the increase in excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation as well as the decrease in income. Comparison of th e Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Six Months Ended June 30, $ % Revenues 2017 2016 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 36,198 $ 39,152 $ (2,954 ) (8 )% Gainshare performance incentives 12,380 12,617 (237 ) (2 )% Total $ 48,578 $ 51,769 $ (3,191 ) (6 )% Design-to-Silicon-Yield Solutions . Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue decreased $3.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to timing of purchases by new and existing customers. Gainshare Performance Incentives . Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased $0.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to lower Gainshare from 28nm volumes, not yet fully offset by higher Gainshare from 14nm volumes. Six Months Ended June 30, $ % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions 2017 2016 Change Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 22,618 $ 20,668 $ 1,950 9 % Amortization of acquired technology 192 192 % Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 22,810 $ 20,860 $ 1,950 9 % 25 Costs of Design-to-Silicon-Yield Solutions. Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions increased $2.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in personnel-related costs, primarily due to the increase in headcount in Asia, a $0.5 million increase in depreciation expense related to our test equipment, and a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expense. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended June 30, 2017 remained the same at $0.2 million compared to amortization for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Six Months Ended June 30, $ % Research and Development 2017 2016 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 14,557 $ 13,371 $ 1,186 9 % Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in personnel-related expense, a $0.4 million increase in subcontractor expenses, and a $0.2 million increase in depreciation expense. The increased investment in research and development is primarily driven by continued development activity related to our DFI solution. Six Months Ended June 30, $ % Selling, General and Administrative 2017 2016 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 12,095 $ 10,218 $ 1,877 18 % Selling, General and Administrative . Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in personnel-related expense as a result of world-wide merit increases and hiring of an executive, a $0.7 million increase in accounting and legal expense primarily a result of the new system implementation and increased legal activities related to Kinesys asset purchase transactions, a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expense, a $0.2 million increase in facility expense, a $0.2 million increase in allowance for doubtful account due to an increase in accounts receivable balance, and a $0.1 million increase in travel expense. Amortization of other acquired intangible for the six months ended June 30, 2017 decreased slightly compared to amortization for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net . The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net from a $0.3 million expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 to a $0.2 million expense for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements. Six Months Ended June 30, $ % Income Tax Provision 2017 2016 Change Change (In thousands, except for percentages) Income tax provision $ (1,976 ) $ 2,605 $ (4,581 ) (176 )% Income Tax Provision (benefit). The decrease in income tax provision (benefit) from a $2.6 million expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 to a $2.0 million benefit for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to the increase in excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation as well as the decrease in income. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2017, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $152.3 million, compared to $151.8 million as of December 31, 2016. Cash and cash equivalents were $109.0 million as of June 30, 2017, compared to $116.8 million as of December 31, 2016. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $3.2 million and $3.4 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. During six months ended June 30, 2017, cash provided by operating activities of $1.0 million was a result of $0.7 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $8.4 million and a cash decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $8.1 million. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $5.8 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.3 million, amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.4 million, and a provision for doubtful accounts of $0.1 million, partially offset by deferred taxes of $0.2 million. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $6.0 million increase in accounts receivable, mainly due to the slow payments from Asia customers, a $3.4 million increase in prepaid expense and other current assets, a $0.2 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, and a $0.7 million of decrease in accrued and other liabilities, partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in accounts payable, a $0.4 million decrease in other non-current assets, a $0.7 million increase in deferred revenue, and a $0.3 million increase in billing in excess of recognized revenue. Cash flows used in investing activities of $5.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, consisted of payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment. Cash flows used in financing activities of $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, consisted of $4.8 million of cash used to purchase shares of our common stock, $1.9 million cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, offset by $1.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.9 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 26 During the six months ended June 30, 2016, cash generated from operating activities of $2.8 million was a result of $4.2 million of net income, non-cash adjustments to net income of $8.0 million and a cash decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $9.4 million. Non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $5.0 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.6 million, deferred taxes of $1.0 million, amortization of acquired intangible assets of $0.4 million, and loss on disposal of property and equipment of $0.1 million, offset by $0.1 million reversal of doubtful accounts. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $1.2 million increase in accounts receivable, a $1.0 million increase in prepaid expense and other current assets, a $7.9 million increase in other non-current assets due to the increase in the long-term unbilled portion of the Company's Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts, a $1.0 million decrease in billing in excess of recognized revenues, and a $0.2 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, offset by a $0.6 million increase in accounts payable, a $0.3 million increase in accrued compensation and related benefits, and a $1.0 million increase in deferred revenue. Cash flows used in investing activities of $5.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively, consisted of payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment. Cash flows used in financing activities of $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, consisted primarily of $1.8 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, and $1.1 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, offset by $0.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.8 million proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of June 30, 2017: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2017 (remaining six months) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations $ 936 $ 1,329 $ 448 $ 381 $ 297 $ 75 $ 3,466 Purchase obligations(1) 6,834 576 267 222 222 8,121 Total(2) $ 7,770 $ 1,905 $ 715 $ 603 $ 519 $ 75 $ 11,587 (1) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (2) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.7 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.