Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We offer products and services designed to empower engineers and data scientists across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield, quality, and profitability of their products. Our solutions combine proprietary software, physical intellectual property (or IP) for integrated circuit (or IC) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We primarily monetize our solutions through time-based license fees and contract revenue for professional services. In some cases, especially on our historical yield ramp engagements, we also receive a value-based royalty that we call a Gainshare performance incentive. Our products and services have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSATs), and system houses. Industry Trend Certain trends may affect our analytics opportunities. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by the user) is driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the organization of IT networks and computing at those same companies. First, the ubiquity of wireless connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has continually increased year to year. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. Semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, frequently resulting in greater demands on the analytics programs. The combination of these two trends means that cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security and data protection are increasingly demanded for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these trends will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in adopting Industry 4.0 and secure cloud computing will create opportunities for companies that have a combination of advanced analytics capabilities, proven and established data infrastructures, and professional services to optimize their environment to customers specialized needs. 26 Table of Contents Other trends may continue to affect our integrated yield ramp opportunities. The logic foundry market at the leading edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm has undergone significant change over the past few years. The leading foundry continues to increase market share as other foundries have either suspended 7nm development, forecasted a later start of mass production, or started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely continue to negatively impact our yield ramp solutions business on these nodes. Further, for many foundries, utilization rates for 28nm fabs remain suppressed. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue for at least the next few years. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes and continue to engage foreign suppliers. There are other trends that may affect our business opportunities in general. For instance, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will continue to create a need for all types of products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended September 30, 2019, were as follows: Total revenues were $21.9 million, which was an increase of $1.7 million, or 8%, compared to the year-ago period. Solutions revenue was $16.2 million, which was an increase of $2.2 million, or 16%, compared to the year-ago period. The increase in Solutions revenue was primarily due to the increases in our Exensio platform revenues that were driven by higher business activity. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $5.7 million, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 9%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease was primarily due to lower wafer volumes at the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes covered by contracts with Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Gross margin was 60%, compared to 47% for the year-ago period. Gross profit was significantly higher than the prior period due primarily to higher Solutions revenue and a reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a $2.5 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount, and a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort. These decreases in cost of solutions were partially offset by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in hardware and equipment expense, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-delivered solutions-related costs, and (iv) a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense. Net loss was $0.7 million, compared to a net loss of $2.1 million for the year-ago period. The decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to a $1.7 million increase in total revenues, and a $2.0 million decrease in cost of solutions, partially offset by a $2.2 million increase in operating expenses as we continued to make investments in research and development and sales and marketing activities. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.02), compared to net loss per basic and diluted share of $(0.06) for the year-ago period, a decrease of $0.04 per basic and diluted share. Cash and cash equivalents increased $4.2 million to $100.3 million at September 30, 2019, from $96.1 million at December 31, 2018, primarily due to collection of significant past due accounts receivables during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by cash used in investing activities related to the property and equipment purchased for the development our DFI solution, expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and a payment for the acquisition of certain assets of StreamMosaic, Inc., a provider of artificial intelligence and machine learning solutions, and cash used in financing activities primarily due to repurchases of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Financial highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, were as follows: Total revenues were $63.0 million, which was a decrease of $3.0 million, or 5%, compared to the compared to the year-ago period. Solutions revenues were $46.3 million, which was a decrease of $1.1 million, or 2%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in Solutions revenue was primarily related to a decrease in the revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio platform revenues. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $16.7 million, a decrease of $1.9 million, or 10%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in Gainshare performance incentives revenue was primarily due to lower incentives revenue from the 28nm technology node. Gross margin was 61%, compared to 50% for the year-ago period. Gross profit was significantly higher than the prior period due primarily to (i) recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, without which our gross margin would have been approximately 2% lower, and (ii) a reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $7.6 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, (ii) a $0.2 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lower Solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.7 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management efforts. These decreases in cost of solutions were partially offset by (i) a $1.9 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-delivered solutions related costs, and (iii) $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense. Net loss was $4.1 million, compared to a net loss of $4.6 million for the year-ago period. The decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to (i) a $3.4 million decrease in cost of solutions and operating expenses related to a decrease in personnel-related costs driven by lower headcount, hardware and equipment costs, travel, operating lease and subcontractor expenses and accounting and audit fees, partially offset by increase in employee stock compensation expense, recruiting and legal fees, facilities and depreciation and amortization expenses, and (ii) a $3.0 million decrease in total revenues. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.13), compared to net loss per basic and diluted share of $(0.14) for the year-ago period, a decrease of $0.01 per basic and diluted share. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and expected effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. With the exception of the changes made to our accounting for leases as a result of the adoption of ASC 842, there have been no material changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 28 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Solutions revenue and Gainshare performance incentives. Solutions revenue We recognize revenue for each element of solutions revenue as follows: We license the majority of our software products separately from project-based solution implementation service contracts, in particular, our Exensio platform and related products. The majority of this software is delivered as on-premise software licenses, while others can be delivered entirely or partially through Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or cloud delivery models. Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support subscription is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based license software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time. The license component is recognized at a point in time, at the delivery of the software license, with the post-contract support subscription component being recognized ratably over for the committed term of the contract. Revenue from software hosting or SaaS arrangements that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. We also license our DFI system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts that are not project-based solutions implementation services contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables under these DFI contracts based on their standalone selling prices, or SSP. In such instances, we apply judgment to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. We generate a portion of our Solutions revenue from fixed-price, project-based solution implementation service contracts that are associated with our classic yield ramp business, which services are delivered over a specific period of time. Revenue under these projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, depending on whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of costs or hours at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by us to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated (the cumulative catch-up method). We typically include some of our products and other technology as components of our fixed-price, project-based services contracts. In such instances, we determine whether the services performed and products/technology included, are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation, and therefore, follows the pattern of transfer as the service is provided. We apply a measure of progress (typically hours-to-hours or cost-to-cost) to any fixed consideration. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are performed using the percentage of completion method. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a project-based solution implementation services contract, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by the Company of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer pays a variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended, related to continued usage of the Company's intellectual property. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare performance incentive periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We recorded Gainshare revenue as a usage-based royalty based on customers' usage of intellectual property and recorded in the same period in which the usage occurs. 29 Table of Contents Income Taxes The Company's provision for income tax comprises its current tax liability and change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The measurement of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on provisions of enacted tax laws; the effect of future changes in tax laws or rates is not factored in. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that in managements judgment is more likely than not to be recoverable against future taxable income. No U.S. taxes are provided on earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent such earnings are deemed to be permanently invested. The Company's income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax laws. The Companys tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based upon its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different from the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Solutions $ 16,208 $ 13,976 $ 2,232 16 % $ 46,298 $ 47,431 $ (1,133 ) (2 )% Gainshare performance incentives 5,706 6,237 (531 ) (9 )% 16,725 18,638 (1,913 ) (10 )% Total revenues $ 21,914 $ 20,213 $ 1,701 8 % $ 63,023 $ 66,069 $ (3,046 ) (5 )% Solutions revenue as a percentage of total revenues 74 % 69 % 73 % 72 % Gainshare performance incentives as a percentage of total revenues 26 % 31 % 27 % 28 % Solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training), software licenses, and hardware. Solutions revenue increased $2.2 million for three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to the increase in our Exensio platform revenues that were driven by higher business activity. Solutions revenue decreased by $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to the decrease in the revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio platform revenues. Our Solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers, penetrate new markets, and further penetrate of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. 30 Table of Contents Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent royalties and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to lower wafer volumes at the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes covered by contracts with Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased by $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to lower wafer volumes at the 28nm technology node covered by contracts with Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Solutions $ 7,493 $ 3,293 $ 4,200 128 % $ 21,883 $ 14,349 $ 7,534 53 % Gainshare performance incentives 5,706 6,237 (531 ) (9 )% 16,725 18,638 (1,913 ) (10 )% Gross profit $ 13,199 $ 9,530 $ 3,669 38 % $ 38,608 $ 32,987 $ 5,621 17 % Gross margin Solutions revenue 46 % 24 % 47 % 30 % Gross margin Gainshare performance incentives 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Gross margin Total Company 60 % 47 % 61 % 50 % Gross margin increased for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to higher Solutions revenue and a reduction in headcount related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a $2.5 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount, and a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort. These decreases in cost of solutions were partially offset by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in hardware and equipment expense due to higher solutions revenue, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-delivered solutions-related costs, and (iv) a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense. Gross margin increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to (i) recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, without which our gross margin would be approximately 2% lower, and (ii) a reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $7.6 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by increase in salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, (ii) a $0.2 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lower solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.7 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management efforts. These decreases in costs of solutions partially offset by (i) a $1.9 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-delivered solutions-related costs, and (iii) $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense. 31 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 8,435 $ 6,755 $ 1,680 25 % $ 23,993 $ 21,100 $ 2,893 14 % Research and development as a percentage of total revenues 38 % 33 % 38 % 32 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses increased for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $1.2 million increase in personnel-related cost, driven primarily by salary expenses related to our annual merit performance program, higher payroll expenses due to the shifting of more resources from our yield ramp business to research and development activities, additional headcount, and an increase in stock based compensation expense, and (ii) a $0.5 million increase in facilities and information technology related-costs driven primarily by increased in development costs for our cloud-based delivery for our Exensio platform and higher depreciation expense. Research and development expenses increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period due primarily to (i) a $2.6 million increase in personnel-related expense, driven by an increase in stock based compensation expense of $1.2 million, higher payroll expenses due to the shifting of more resources from our yield ramp business to research and development activities, additional headcount, and an increase in salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, and (ii) a $1.0 million increase in facilities and information technology (IT) related-costs, driven primarily by higher costs allocation for certain facilities and IT related-expenses which are calculated using a proportional allocation based on headcount, an increase in development costs for our cloud-based delivery for our Exensio platform, and higher depreciation expense for our laboratory equipment and higher amortization expense of leasehold improvements related to the expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room. These increases in research and development expense were partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 5,990 $ 5,507 $ 483 9 % $ 19,940 $ 17,801 $ 2,139 12 % Selling, general and administrative as a percentage of total revenues 27 % 27 % 32 % 27 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.5 million increase in personnel-related expenses driven by higher payroll expenses allocated to selling and marketing activities as a result of shifting of resources from our yield ramp business, salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, and increase in stock-based compensation, and (ii) a $0.1 million increase in professional fees due mainly from timing of professional audit fees causing variance between the two periods. These increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and a $0.1 million decrease in legal expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.2 million increase in personnel-related expenses driven by higher payroll expenses allocated to selling and marketing activities as a result of the shifting of resources from our yield ramp business, salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, an increase in accrued vacation benefits, and increase in recruiting expense, (ii) a $0.3 million increase in other facilities and IT related-expenses, and (iii) a $0.2 million increase in legal expense primarily related to a business acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. These increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by (i) a $0.3 million decrease in professional fees due primarily to lower audit fees, (ii) a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and (iii) a $0.2 million decrease in operating lease expense. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 174 $ 108 $ 66 61 % $ 436 $ 326 $ 110 34 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. The increase in amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago periods, was primarily related to amortization of other acquired intangible assets related to acquisition of certain assets from StreamMosaic, Inc. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ 202 $ 223 $ (21 ) (9 )% $ 307 $ 283 $ 24 8 % Interest and other income (expense), net, primarily consists of interest income and foreign currency transaction exchange gain (loss). Interest and other income (expense), net, slightly decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to a decrease in other miscellaneous income and an increase in loss related to foreign currency forward contracts, partially offset by higher interest income and net favorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Interest and other income (expense), net, slightly increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to an increase in interest income and net favorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by loss related to foreign currency forward contracts. 33 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Income tax benefit $ (511 ) $ (535 ) $ (24 ) (4 )% $ (1,458 ) $ (1,355 ) $ 103 8 % Income tax benefit is relatively flat for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period. Income tax benefit increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal year 2019 and 2018, and higher excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2019, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $122.2 million, compared to $137.7 million as of December 31, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents were $100.3 million as of September 30, 2019, compared to $96.1 million as of December 31, 2018. As of September 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $4.6 million and $4.1 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 23,011 $ 9,043 $ 13,968 Investing activities (9,501 ) (8,747 ) (754 ) Financing activities (9,226 ) (4,658 ) (4,568 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (114 ) (117 ) 3 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 4,170 $ (4,479 ) $ 8,649 Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 mostly consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred taxes. The $14.0 million increase in cash flows from operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in net loss, (ii) an increase in non-cash adjustments to net loss by $0.1 million primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $0.8 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $0.6 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred tax assets of $1.7 million, and (iii) a $13.3 million increase in net change from operating assets and liabilities. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were as follows: Accounts receivable decreased by $16.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to collection of significant past due accounts receivables from three customers in Asia. Other noncurrent assets increased by $1.0 million primarily due to an increase in unbilled receivables resulting from increase in solutions revenue recognized during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. Deferred revenue increased by $1.5 million primarily due to the timing of billing and revenue recognition. 34 Table of Contents Net Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $0.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, cash flows used in investing activities related to (i) $6.9 million of property and equipment purchased primarily related to the construction of our DFI assets and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and (ii) a $2.7 million payment for a business acquisition. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, cash flows used in investing activities related to property and equipment purchased for the development of our DFI solution, furniture and fixture and leasehold improvements for the office headquarters. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by $4.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $9.6 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, and $1.9 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.5 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities consisted of $5.2 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $1.7 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.3 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of September 30, 2019: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2019 (remaining three months) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations(1) $ 388 $ 1,842 $ 1,693 $ 1,510 $ 1,152 $ 3,673 $ 10,258 Purchase obligations(2) 6,612 7,259 1,005 62 3 14,941 Total(3) $ 7,000 $ 9,101 $ 2,698 $ 1,572 $ 1,155 $ 3,673 $ 25,199 (1) Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) for further discussion. (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.8 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) for further discussion. 35 Table of Contents