Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) on the semiconductor industry and our business and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this Form 10-K, especially those contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The words may, anticipate, plan, continue, could, projected, expect, believe, intend, and assume, the negative of these terms and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and based on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to fiscal year apply to our fiscal year that ends on December 31. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. PART I Item 1. Business Business Overview PDF Solutions offers products and services designed to empower engineers and data scientists across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield, quality, and profitability of their products. Our products, services, and solutions include proprietary software, physical intellectual property (or IP) for integrated circuit (or IC) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We primarily monetize our offerings through time-based license fees, contract revenue for professional services, and increasingly recently, software as a service (or SaaS). In some cases, especially on our historical integrated yield ramp (or IYR) engagements, we also receive a value-based royalty that we call Gainshare. Our products, services, and solutions have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSATs), and system houses. The key benefits of our offerings are improved product yields and quality, faster time-to-market, and as a result of the prior two increased profitability for our customers. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Also, for example, our IDM and fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning (or ML) and artificial intelligence (or AI) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time for designs to meet performance requirements with fewer iterations and faster time-to-market. For further example, our foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, and/or test. Our long-term business strategy is to be the data analytics provider of choice for the semiconductor and electronic supply chain by enabling our customers to optimize processes, designs, and fabrication for high yield, low cost, time-to-market, and high performance. To achieve this, we intend to: Develop End-To-End Analytics Offerings That Leverage Data Across The Customer Supply Chain . As Industry 4.0 becomes the baseline standard across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystems, semiconductor companies will typically be storing tens of terabytes of manufacturing and test data, with some customers storing more than 100 TB of data. Collecting, harmonizing, 4 Table of Contents and analyzing this volume of data with traditional methods will become impractical and will require companies to look for products and solutions that minimize or eliminate data management and accelerate analytics. Our Exensio software platform provides an on-premise or cloud-based environment that includes a production-proven big data infrastructure, a common semantic data model, and advanced analytics that enables companies to leverage their historically siloed manufacturing and test data to significantly improve their operational metrics. In addition, we are now deploying ML solutions by leveraging our Exensio software platform with professional services aimed to enable our customers to push their analytics to the edge of their global supply chains in order to shift the analysis and decision-making processes closer to where their data is being generated. The effect of enabling edge analytics should further increase our customers ability to improve product yield, quality, performance, and profitability. Create Differentiated Data Sources That Drive Analytics To Achieve Its Full Potential . Historically, companies have only used data that was generated from their manufacturing and test process to drive improvements. We offer unique IP (such as Characterization Vehicle (CV ) test chips) that is not part of an ICs functionality, but significantly improves the manufacturing process by improving yield learning and reducing time to market. Also, our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) system provides on-chip instrumentation and measurement applications from 28 nanometer (nm) down to 7nm designed to identify blockers that impact product yield and quality months earlier than any other hardware- or software-based methodology. We believe that in the More-than-Moore (MtM) era, the differentiated data we provide can play an important role in enabling our customers to bring new products to market faster and with higher quality and performance, and, ultimately, more profitability. Provide High-Value, Complete Solutions For Fabless And Foundry Companies . We are increasing the breadth and depth of our solutions that target the essential data analytics needs of our diverse customer base to meet the needs and requirements of Industry 4.0. We have developed variations of our historical products that are optimized for each type of customer foundry, fabless, or IDM and can be further tuned for a companys size or development stage, from smaller, startup companies to Fortune 100 companies. These products and services can be installed on premise at the customer or in the cloud, depending on the needs of the customer for maximum flexibility and total cost of ownership (TCO). We believe this product strategy will serve us well in our established markets as well as in emerging markets such as China. Despite the current geopolitical headwinds, we feel that the long-term growth prospects are positive and we are continuing to invest sales and R&D resources for this region. Brief History PDF Solutions was incorporated in Pennsylvania in November 1992, and we reincorporated in California in November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market as PDFS. From 2000 through 2009, we expanded our technology footprint and our operations in various countries through acquisitions. From 2009 to 2019, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare royalties. In 2013, we leveraged our extensive experience in yield simulation software and CV test chip development and started research and development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical characterization and process control for wafer inspection. The first generation e-beam tool for DFI was completed in 2015, and the second generation was commercially deployed in 2019. In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-integrated data analytics Exensio platform, which resulted in accelerated growth in software through 2019. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, we also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Industry Background Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price and demand started to decrease near the end of the products life cycle. Today there are many different business models across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards fast-moving market segments like Internet of Things (or IoT) which utilize mature process nodes and requires a fast ramp to volume with a relatively short life cycle, and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending on the level of design complexity and the maturity of the process node used for product implementation. Processors, memory and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) continue to leverage the most advanced process nodes and experience significant challenges to achieve competitive initial yields and optimized performance. Some products and market segments, however, are content to utilize older process nodes. Regardless of the process node used for implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield reclamation, product quality, and test 5 Table of Contents efficiency, throughout a products life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. Technology and Intellectual Property Protection Through yield, performance, and reliability improvement services over more than 20 years, we have accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and Characterization Vehicle systems, our engineers create designs of experiments (or DOEs) and layouts for targeted fail modes. We have also developed electrical measurement hardware tools and proprietary extraction, design, and analysis software. In addition, our technology embodies many production-proven and patented algorithms. Further, our IP includes proven methodologies that our implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers use of our technology. We continually enhance our core technologies through the codification of knowledge that we gain in the use of our products and delivery of services. Our future success and competitive position rely to some extent upon our ability to protect these pr oprietary technologies and IP, to generate revenue from the licensed sale and support of our software and hardware to customers, and to prevent competitors from using our systems, methods, and technologies in their products or solutions. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, and patent, copyright, mask work, and trademark laws. We license our products and technologies pursuant to non-exclusive license agreements that impose restrictions on customers use. In addition, we seek to avoid disclosure of our trade secrets, including requiring employees, customers, and others with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us, and restricting access to our source code. We also seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We seek to protect our IP under patent laws and as of December 31, 2019, we held 160 U.S. patents. Our issued patents have expiration dates from 2020 through 2038. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. We also employ protection of our trademarks, with registration of marks, including Characterization Vehicle, CV, eProbe, Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, the PDF Solutions logo. We have common law rights to additional trademarks, including ALPS, DFI DirectProbe, and DirectScan. Products and Services Products Our software is typically sold with maintenance and support and other related services, which are described below, or provided as a service (known as SaaS), or combined with our proprietary hardware products to form systems that we then further combine with services, as described below. Our primary products and systems include the following: Exensio Software Products . Our separately-offered Exensio software products address the big data manufacturing challenge of todays advanced process nodes and highly integrated products, by enabling links across fab, test floor, and other enterprise data types. These data types include inline and end-of-line metrology, yield, parametric, performance, manufacturing consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. By providing a common environment for all these different data types from many different points in the manufacturing and test process, our Exensio products are designed to enable customers to rapidly perform root cause diagnosis of yield, performance, and quality issues that impact manufacturing and test operations. These products are also designed to enable predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, process adjustments, PM scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer level and final test. Collectively, our Exensio products are designed to enable real-time rapid diagnosis and understanding of key manufacturing and test metrics during both inline and end-of-line wafer processing, helping customers reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. Our Exensio products also address the problem of silos of data which without our software only allows local optimization. By integrating these silos of data and applying AI and ML, our Exensio products are designed to provide foresight across the entire production process, reducing the time it takes to make critical decisions that can drive higher product yield, quality and reliability. Exensio products are available as either an on-premise license or SaaS. There are four main, separately-offered Exensio products and many optional modules to provide specific capabilities to address a particular type of companys needs and requirements, including primarily, as follows: Exensio Yield This software collects yield data and stores it in an embedded, analysis-ready database, providing a common environment and a consistent view of all product yield data, and is designed to enable product engineers to identify and analyze production yield, performance, reliability and other issues. Elements of this product are designed to handle very large data sets that are commonplace in the semiconductor industry and, in combination with other Exensio analytic modules, aid engineers in diagnosing complex issues that negatively impact productivity, yield, and time-to-market for the products they develop. To support the multi-dimensional product requirements of our customers, the powerful, interactive visualization and analysis capabilities in this product are highly flexible and user-configurable. 6 Table of Contents Exensio Control This software provides failure detection and classification (or FDC) capabilities for monitoring, alarming and control of manufacturing tool sets. These capabilities include proprietary data collection and analysis of tool sensor trace data and summary indicators designed to rapidly identify sources of process variations and manufacturing excursions. When used together with Exensio Yield and related modules, the accretive data mining and correlation capabilities are designed to enable identification of tool level sources of yield loss and process variation that impact end of line product yield, performance and reliability. Exensio Test This software provides comprehensive data collection and analysis capabilities for data generated during manufacturing test operations designed to optimize test operations management overall, including improving test productivity, performing part average test, supporting test floor operations, and implementing adaptive test. Exensio Test is also designed to provide predictive insights based on proprietary analytics during test, assembly and packaging to maximize the efficiency of test operations, productivity improvements and yield reclamation. Exensio ALPS This software provides device manufacturers with the capability to link assembly and packaging data with other product lifecycle data, including fabrication and characterization data, across the product life cycle. Data sources could include manufacturing, wafer acceptance test, wafer sort, test and assembly, final test, and field use. The proprietary data linkage enabled by Exensio ALPS is also designed to enable device manufacturers to maintain full traceability of their finished products back to the source wafer without the need for Electronic Chip IDs (or ECIDs). This capability is becoming an essential requirement for safety-critical market segments such as automotive and military-aerospace. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI) System. Our DFI System is a combination of on-chip measurement instruments, hardware to measure such instruments, software to insert the instruments into customer layouts and analyze the results, and related services. This system is designed to enable our customers to achieve non-contact, inline electrical characterization and more effective process control. The DFI system provides customers an ability to insert on-chip instruments with calibrated electrical responses directly in the product wafer without die area penalty. In addition, the DFI system is designed to be high-throughput, enabling inline use. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods. The DFI system leverages our production-proven design and analysis infrastructure. The primary software and hardware products included in the DFI system are as follows: DFI On-Chip Instruments Our on-chip measurement instruments are developed using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software and are tuned to capture key features of our customers product layouts. As part of the system offering, we generally provide design services to create these instruments. These DFI instruments designed to be placed in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die, without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses. eProbe Non-Contact E-Beam Tool Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed to measure the electrical response of the DFI instruments. This unique, differentiated data is a measure, which we call an Electrical Response Index (or ERI), that is designed to allow for more precise inline characterization of design-process interactions. As part of the system offering, we generally provide tool support services to customers to operate this tool. The second generation tool includes orders of magnitude advances in throughput and accuracy that now enable DFI on-chip instruments to be used for inline control for leading-edge semiconductor process nodes. Exensio Characterization Software This software, which is also a part of our Exensio platform, is designed to analyze the billions of measurements collected from DFI on-chip instruments using the eProbe tool. As part of the system offering, we generally provide analysis services to customers to perform this analysis and provide summary findings and recommendations. There are two configurations for the DFI System: Foundry Configuration We provide foundry customers with a complete DFI system for inline characterization and process control. This DFI infrastructure includes not only on-wafer IP, or on-chip instruments, but also the eProbe measurement tool and the Exensio Characterization software for DFI data processing and analysis. All aspects of the foundry offering are designed to be optimized for high data contrast, fast data handling, and comprehensive data analysis to provide foresight into downstream issues that could impact yield, reliability, or performance. F abless Configuration We work closely with our fabless customers to tune the DFI on-chip instruments to reflect the key aspects of their product designs. As part of this configuration, we generally provide our DFI insertion software kit to customers, which is designed to efficiently distribute DFI filler cells across the die, for maximum issue coverage with fast readout. The DFI system is designed to enable fabless companies designing products at 28 nanometers and below to achieve better manufacturing results. 7 Table of Contents Characterization Vehicle (CV) System. Our CV System is a combination of CV test chips, hardware to test such products, software to analyze the test results, and related services. This system is designed to accelerate the efficiency of yield learning by shortening the learning cycle, learning more per cycle, and reducing the number of silicon wafers required in manufacturing processes. This system includes physical IP in the form of test structures and DOEs that are tuned to our customers product and/or process specifics, tester hardware, data analysis, and training. The primary software and hardware products included in the CV system are as follows: CV Test Chips Our proprietary test chips are designed by our professional engineers using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software. These test chips are run through a customers manufacturing process, with intentional process modifications, to provide unique, differentiated data to explore the effects of potential process improvements given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customers process. Types of CV test chips include: Our full-reticle and shared-reticle CV test chips are designed to provide a fast learning cycle and are fully integrated with third-party failure analysis and inspection tools for a complete diagnosis to understand root causes. Our full-reticle CV test chips use a shortened process flow to provide a faster learning cycle for specific process modules. Our Scribe CV test chip are inserted directly on customers product wafers to collect data about critical layers. Our DirectProbe CV test chips are designed to enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs by allowing our clients to measure components of actual product layout. pdFasTest Electrical Tester Our proprietary test hardware is optimized to quickly test our CV test chips, enabling fast defect and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. As part of the system offering, we provide test programs for each CV test chip that are tuned to the customers process. This automated system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical measurements to test our CV test chips. We provide services to analyze the unique, differentiated data output of this tester using the Exensio Characterization software to provide actionable insights to our customers. Exensio Characterization software This software, which is also a part of our Exensio platform, collects the data generated from our CV test products, generating models of the performance effects of process variations on these design building blocks. As part of the system offering, we also offer analysis services, if the customer elects not to do such analysis itself. Services Our services are virtually always sold together with, or to support, our products and systems and include the following: Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) We provide services to make our Exensio software available to our customers via the Internet, generally hosted by third-party providers. SaaS is considered part of cloud computing since the software is hosted on the Internet, or the cloud. Since our SaaS applications are accessed from a remote server rather than installed on individual machines, it is easier to maintain. For example, when the remote software is updated, the customers interface is also updated for all users. Cloud computing is designed to eliminate incompatibilities between different software versions and allow us to make incremental updates without requiring software downloads. Additionally, our customers can save data to a central online location, which is designed to allow increased project collaboration. Software Related Services We provide software maintenance and support (or M&S), data management services, various value-added services (or VAS) to install, configure, or create analysis templates, and other professional services to achieve customers specific outcomes using our software. We call this last type of services our AIM solutions and, in these cases, we tailor the user flows of one or more Exensio products to achieve a desired result. For example, our AIM YieldAware FDC offering is designed to identify the process control variables that have the greatest impact on product yield through professional services that analyze the data from both Exensio Control and elements of Exensio Yield and make recommendations for the customer to implement. VAS are provided by our professional service personnel with expertise that enhances and complements the engineering teams at our customers. For example, VAS includes our data cleaning and monitoring services. One requirement of big data analytics is to have clean, harmonized data to analyze. This service offering outsources the data wrangling and management effort to free the customer to focus their efforts on analysis, which has a greater ROI to the company than data management. 8 Table of Contents IYR Services These services are designed to characterize key product and/or process elements, primarily into CV test structures or DFI on-chip measurement instruments, and typically include performance incentives based on the customers yield achievement. We provide these services, together with all of the elements of our CV system, to foundry customers as an Integrated Yield Ramp project in connection with new process technology development and yield ramp. In IYR engagements, we generally provide the analysis of our CV test chips and provide summary findings and recommendations to the customer. IYR engagements can include DFI systems for use during the implementation period. As electrical scaling has slowed down significantly over the past few years, we have chosen to focus our resources and investment in analytics, however, these IYR services are still offered from time to time. Customers Our existing customers include foundries, IDMs, fabless semiconductor design companies, OSATs, as well as some equipment manufacturers, including those that embed and distribute our Exensio ALPS products in their equipment. Our semiconductor customers targeted product segments vary significantly, including microprocessors, memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our solutions to the broader semiconductor market. We often have multiple contracts with a single customer or customer group, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc., which, together with its subsidiaries, we collectively call GlobalFoundries, represented 31% of our revenues for 2019 and 37% of our revenues for 2018. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2019 and 2018. See the discussion in Risk Factors under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. International revenues accounted for approximately 58% of our total revenues for 2019 compared to 60% for 2018. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed or where the customer is located. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers work sites for our last two fiscal years can be found in Note 13, Customer and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, Risk Factors. See our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II,