Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, projected, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; the impact of rising global inflation and interest rates, expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of continued adoption of our solutions by new and existing customers; project milestones or delays and performance criteria achieved; cost and schedule of new product development; the provision of technology and services prior to the execution of a final contract; the continuing impact of COVID-19 on the semiconductor industry and our operations or supply and demand for our products; supply chain disruptions; the success of the Companys strategic growth opportunities and partnerships; the Companys ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; whether the Company can successfully convert backlog into revenue; customers production volumes under contracts that provide Gainshare; possible impacts from the evolving trade regulatory environment and geopolitical tensions and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 1, 2023. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Cimetrix, CV, DFI, Exensio, PDF Solutions, and the PDF Solutions, Exensio, and Cimetrix logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries. Overview We offer products and services designed to empower organizations across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystems to connect, collect, manage, and analyze data about design, equipment, manufacturing, and test to improve the yield and quality of their products. We derive revenues from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp Our offerings combine proprietary software, professional services using proven methodologies and third-party cloud-hosting platforms for software-as-a-service (SaaS), electrical measurement hardware tools, and physical intellectual property (IP) for integrated circuit (IC) designs. We primarily monetize our offerings through license fees and contract fees for professional services and SaaS. In some cases, especially on our historical IYR engagements, we also receive a value-based variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare. Our products, services, and solutions have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSATs), capital equipment manufacturers and system houses. We are headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Industry Trends Certain trends may affect our Analytics revenue specifically. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by the user) is 24 Table of Contents driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the organization of information technology (IT) networks and computing at semiconductor and electronics companies across the ecosystem. First, the ubiquity of wireless connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has continually decreased year to year. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. Further, semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, frequently resulting in greater demands on analytics programs. The combination of these latter two trends means that cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security, and data protection are increasingly in demand for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these trends will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in adopting Industry 4.0 and secure cloud computing will create opportunities for our combination of advanced analytics capabilities, proven and established supporting infrastructure, and professional services to configure our products to meet customers specialized needs. Other trends may continue to affect our characterization services business and Integrated Yield Ramp revenue specifically. The logic foundry market at the leading-edge nodes, such as 10nm, 7nm, and smaller, underwent significant change over the past few years. The leading foundry continues to dominate market share as other foundries started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely continue to impact our characterization services business on these nodes. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 14nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and extreme ultraviolet lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue. Compliance with changing U.S. export restrictions limit our possible business with Chinese semiconductor manufacturers on advanced nodes. As a result of these market developments, we have chosen to focus our resources and investments in products, services, and solutions for analytics. There are other global or business trends that may affect our business opportunities generally as follows: Continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A continuing effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is a global shortage in semiconductors due primarily to supply chain disruptions. Some market segments, including automotive semiconductors, continue to have shortages in production. Although COVID-19 related shortages have not materially affected our business, this trend may affect our future business opportunities, particularly future Gainshare and Cimetrix run-time licenses, if our customers production volumes decrease. Impacts from inventory cycles. With the easing of COVID-19 pandemic restrictions, the demand for semiconductors from hardware sales supporting work-from-home has waned. In addition, the strength of the subsequent economic recovery has varied by region. A result has been increased semiconductor inventories for several product segments. The industry has experienced reduced semiconductor fab utilization rates, and semiconductor capital equipment orders. If these trends persist, the overall reduction in demand may affect our Analytics revenue and our Integrated Yield Ramp gainshare revenue. Continuing demand for consumer electronics. The demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high-performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs, and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices continue to fuel demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective 25 Table of Contents manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will continue to create a need for our products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. Impacts on the global chip supply chain. The ongoing Russo-Ukrainian war has negatively impacted the global supply chain and global energy markets, which has resulted in inflation, supply chain shortages and rising prices. Ukraine and Russia are both top suppliers of neon gas that is used in lasers and chip manufacturing, and Russia is a major producer of palladium, a rare metal used in computer components, sensors, and fuel cells. Limitations on the supply of these two elements can severely affect the global supply chain, which is already scarce. Russia also supplies much of the worlds premium nickel, which is used by electronics manufacturers to make batteries. If these trends continue or worsen, we or our customers may face a shortage of critical components. These macroeconomic impacts, including inflationary pressures and increasing global interest rates, could also increase our material, labor, and other costs. Changing export controls and sanctions. The U.S. government continues to expand and intensify export controls and sanctions. This includes the addition of many Peoples Republic of China (P.R.C.) and Russian companies to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Entity List or Unverified List. These listings restrict supply to designees of items that are subject to the EAR. After an internal evaluation, we determined that a large percentage of our software products are not of U.S. origin and are, thus, not subject to the EAR. Our standard operations include development, distribution processes, software download sites, and professional service centers and processes located in various geographies around the world to better serve our customers. Some customers in the P.R.C., in particular, have nonetheless expressed concerns to us that continued action by the U.S. government could potentially interrupt their ability to make use of our products or services. In October 2022, the U.S. government issued an interim final rule (87 Fed. Reg. 62186) with additional export control restrictions. Among several changes, the U.S. government imposed restrictions on supply to any P.R.C. fabrication facility that produces certain advanced logic or memory ICs, when the supply involves a commodity, software or technology (an Item) that is subject to the EAR or when the supply involves a U.S. person even if the Item is not subject to the EAR. Another change is a restriction on supply of an Item subject to the EAR destined for use in the development or production of certain IC manufacturing equipment and certain parts and components of such equipment in the P.R.C. Industry members, including our Company, continue to generate questions and evaluate the effects of the new regulations. In addition, the U.S. government expanded the foreign direct product rules, and thus EAR jurisdiction and restrictions, to additional foreign-produced Items and in connection with additional restricted parties in the P.R.C. The U.S. government has informally indicated that it continues to develop further export control restrictions, a final version of the October 2022 rule, and clarifying guidance, all to be issued in the future. Other countries and jurisdictions with important roles in our industry have announced they intend to update some of their export control regulations to further align with those of the U.S. government. In addition, U.S. government officials have announced that they are developing outbound investment restrictions, which might affect some aspects of conducting business in some regions in unknown ways. The P.R.C. recently imposed restrictions on import of certain memory ICs offered by a U.S. company and has been developing its legal authorities to counter foreign sanctions. The U.S. government is renewing and amplifying its caution that visitors to the P.R.C. are subject to arbitrary enforcement of local laws and wrongful detention, a risk that could deter or hinder certain business activities. Based on our current assessments, we expect the near-term impact of these expanded trade restrictions on our business to be limited, but proposals that are still in government development and open questions of interpretation leave much unknown. We will continue to monitor for any further trade restrictions, other regulatory or policy changes by the U.S. or foreign governments and any actions in response. We remain committed to complying with applicable law. The uncertainty caused by these recent regulations and the potential for additional future restrictions could, nonetheless, negatively affect our future sales in the P.R.C. market. Geopolitical tensions. Geopolitical tension between the U.S. and P.R.C. continues to increase, with both governments taking actions and making statements that lean in the direction of confrontation, including on the issue of Taiwan. Growing tension also increases the risk of unintended mishap, mistake, or accident leading to escalation and global supply chain disruption. The continuing tension between the U.S. and P.R.C. and/or Russian governments in trade and security matters or the perception of that tension could lead to disruptions or reductions in international trade, 26 Table of Contents deter or prevent purchasing activity of customers, and negatively impact our China sales (with respect to U.S.-P.R.C. tensions) and financial results in general (with respect to global tensions). Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended June 30, 2023, are as follows: Total revenues were $41.6 million, an increase of $6.9 million, or 20%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. Analytics revenue was $37.1 million, an increase of $6.0 million, or 19%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by an increase in revenue from Exensio software licenses and increases in revenue from CV system, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to lower orders for runtime licenses. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue increased $0.9 million, or 26%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase in Gainshare from increased customer wafer shipments at non-leading edge nodes, partially offset by a decrease in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Costs of revenues increased $0.3 million, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to increases in hardware costs, third-party cloud-delivery costs and travel expenses. These increases were partially offset by decreases in personnel-related costs. Net income was $6.8 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to an increase in total revenues, interest income, income tax benefits and a decrease in research and development expenses, partially offset by increases in costs of revenues and sales and marketing activities, and general and administrative expenses, which were primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs, third-party cloud-services related costs, legal expenses, travel expenses, and an increase in foreign currency transaction exchange losses. Financial highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2023, are as follows: Total revenues were $82.4 million, an increase of $14.2 million, or 21%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. Analytics revenue was $73.5 million, an increase of $11.9 million, or 19%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by increases in revenue from CV and DFI systems and an increase in revenue from Exensio software licenses, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to lower orders for runtime licenses. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue increased $2.3 million, or 34%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase in Gainshare from increased customer wafer shipments at non-leading edge nodes, partially offset by a decrease in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Costs of revenues increased $0.7 million, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to increases in travel expenses, hardware and third-party cloud-delivery costs. These increases were partially offset by decreases in facilities and IT-related costs and personnel-related costs. Net income was $7.2 million, compared to a net loss of $5.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to an increase in total revenues, interest income, income tax benefits and a decrease in research and development expenses, partially offset by increases in costs of revenues and sales and marketing activities, and general and administrative expenses, which were primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs, legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, travel expenses, third-party cloud-services related costs, facilities and IT-related costs, and an increase in foreign currency transaction exchange losses. Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at June 30, 2023 were $124.0 million, compared to $139.2 million as of December 31, 2022, a decrease of $15.1 million, primarily due to payments of accrued bonuses, legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, purchases of property and 27 Table of Contents equipment, and taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by cash collection from customers, proceeds from purchases under our employee stock purchase plan, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Critical Accounting Estimates See Note 1, Basis of Presentation AndSummary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023. There were no material changes during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and intangible assets, and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue is derived from the following primary offerings: licenses and services for standalone Software (which consists primarily of Exensio and Cimetrix products), SaaS (which consists primarily of Exensio products), and DFI and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue from standalone software is recognized depending on whether the license is perpetual or time-based. Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the customers, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing (i) support and (ii) unspecified software updates on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based-licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time as follows. The license component is recognized at the time when control transfers to customers, with the post-contract support component recognized ratably over the committed term of the contract. For contracts with any combination of licenses, support, and other services, distinct performance obligations are accounted for separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using the standalone selling price (SSP) attributed to each performance obligation. 28 Table of Contents Revenue from SaaS arrangements, which allow for the use of a cloud-based software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software, is accounted for as subscriptions and is recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the date the service is first made available to customers. Revenue from DFI systems and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement is recognized primarily as services are performed. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs. For these contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP attributed to each performance obligation. Where there are not discrete performance obligations, historically, revenue is primarily recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. The estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgment. Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is derived from our yield ramp engagements that include Gainshare or other performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue under these projectbased contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time typically for a fixed fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs and allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP. Similar to the services provided in connection with DFI systems and CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgment. The Gainshare contained in the yield ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of our IP after the fixed-fee service period ends, based on the customers yield achievement. Revenue derived from Gainshare is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare periods are generally subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We record Gainshare as a usage-based royalty derived from customers usage of intellectual property and record it in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes We are required to assess whether it is more-likely-than-not that we will realize our deferred tax assets (DTAs). If we believe that they are not likely to be fully realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets, then to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, we determined a full valuation allowance was still appropriate for our U.S. federal and state net DTAs, primarily driven by a cumulative loss incurred over the 12-quarter period ended June 30, 2023, and the likelihood that we may not utilize tax attributes before they expire. The valuation allowance was approximately $59.2 million as of June 30, 2023, and December 31, 2022. We will continue to evaluate the need for a valuation allowance and may change our conclusion in a future period based on changes in facts (e.g., 12-quarter cumulative profit, significant new revenue, etc.). If we conclude that we are more-likely-than-not to utilize some or all of our U.S. DTAs, we will release some or all of our valuation allowance and our tax provision will decrease in the period in which we make such determination. We evaluate our DTAs for realizability considering both positive and negative evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and any carryback availability. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. Changes in the net DTAs, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through 29 Table of Contents the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Our income tax calculations are based on the application of applicable U.S. federal, state, and/or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). As of June 30, 2023, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings from our international subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, we have not provided for any foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of June 30, 2023. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are taxable in the U.S. in the year earned under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income rules implemented under 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Act) was signed into U.S. law on August 16, 2022. The Act includes various tax provisions, including an excise tax on stock repurchases, expanded tax credits for clean energy incentives, and a corporate alternative minimum tax that generally applies to U.S. corporations with average adjusted financial statement income over a three-year period in excess of $1 billion. While the details of the computation of the tax and implementation of some of the incentives will be subject to regulations that have not yet been released by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Company does not expect the Act to materially impact its consolidated financial statements. The Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors Act (the CHIPS Act) was signed into U.S. law on August 9, 2022. CHIPS Act is intended to increase domestic competitiveness in semiconductor manufacturing capacity, increase research and development in computing, artificial intelligence, clean energy, and nanotechnology through federal government programs and incentives over the next ten years. The CHIPS Act includes an advanced manufacturing tax credit equal to 25% of qualified investments in property purchased for an advanced manufacturing facility. We are evaluating the potential benefits of CHIPS Act to our business. Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based compensation using the fair value method, which requires us to measure stock-based compensation based on the grant-date fair value of the awards and recognize the compensation expense over the requisite service period. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The fair value of our restricted stock units is equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of the grant. These awards are subject to time-based vesting which generally occurs over a period of four years. The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates various assumptions including volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of our stock options. The expected life is based on historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the stock options granted. The interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury yield curve rates appropriate for the expected life of our stock options. Valuation of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We have one operating segment and one operating unit. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently, if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its 30 Table of Contents carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of excess, limited to the amount of total goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property, equipment, and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment. For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. There was no impairment of long-lived assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1, Basis of Presentation andSummary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Six Months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenues, Costs of Revenues, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Revenues: Analytics $ 37,134 $ 31,117 $ 6,017 19 % $ 73,460 $ 61,543 $ 11,917 19 % Integrated Yield Ramp 4,467 3,551 916 26 % 8,900 6,623 2,277 34 % Total revenues 41,601 34,668 6,933 20 % 82,360 68,166 14,194 21 % Costs of revenues 12,369 12,042 327 3 % 24,273 23,571 702 3 % Gross profit $ 29,232 $ 22,626 $ 6,606 29 % $ 58,087 $ 44,595 $ 13,492 30 % Gross margin 70 % 65 % 71 % 65 % Analytics revenue as a percentage of total revenues 89 % 90 % 89 % 90 % Integrated Yield Ramp revenue as a percentage of total revenues 11 % 10 % 11 % 10 % Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue increased $6.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by an increase in revenue from Exensio software licenses and increases in revenue from CV system, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to lower orders for runtime licenses. Analytics revenue increased $11.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by increases in revenue from CV and DFI systems and an increase in revenue from Exensio software licenses, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to lower orders for runtime licenses. 31 Table of Contents Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue increased $0.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase in Gainshare from increased customer wafer shipments at non-leading edge nodes, partially offset by a decrease in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue increased $2.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase in Gainshare from increased customer wafer shipments at non-leading edge nodes, partially offset by a decrease in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period primarily due to the contribution of Gainshare, which is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and whether we enter into new contracts containing Gainshare. Our Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp revenues may also fluctuate in the future and are dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our products, services and solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, supply chain challenges and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues consist primarily of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, IT and facilities-related costs and amortization of acquired technology. Service costs include material, hardware, personnel-related costs including compensation, employee benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense, subcontractor costs, overhead costs, travel, and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with third-party cloud-delivery related expenses and licensing third-party software used by us in providing services to our customers in solution engagements or sold in conjunction with our software products. The increase in costs of revenues of $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily due to (i) a $0.4 million increase in hardware costs, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in travel expenses, and (iii) a $0.1 million increase in third-party cloud-delivery costs. These were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in personnel-related costs due to lower compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in costs of revenues of $0.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, was primarily due to (i) a $0.3 million increase in hardware costs, (ii) a $0.3 million increase in travel expenses, (iii) a $0.3 million increase in third-party cloud-delivery costs, and (iv) a $0.1 million increase in subcontractor costs. These were partially offset by (i) a $0.2 million decrease in facilities and IT-related costs including depreciation expense and (ii) a $0.1 million decrease in personnel-related costs due to lower compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation expense. Gross Margin Gross margin increased 5 percentage points for the three months ended June 30, 2023, to 70%, compared to 65% for the three months ended June 30, 2022. The higher gross margin during the three months ended June 30, 2023, was primarily due to higher total revenue, including Gainshare, when compared to the year-ago period. Gross margin increased 6 percentage points for the six months ended June 30, 2023, to 71%, compared to 65% for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The higher gross margin during the six months ended June 30, 2023, was primarily due to higher total revenue, including Gainshare, when compared to the year-ago period. 32 Table of Contents Operating Expenses: Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Research and development $ 12,264 $ 13,374 $ (1,110) (8) % $ 25,315 $ 27,463 $ (2,148) (8) % As a percentage of total revenues 29 % 39 % 31 % 40 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs including compensation, employee benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense, outside development services, travel, third-party cloud-services related costs, IT and facilities cost allocations to support product development activities. Research and development expenses decreased $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to a $1.5 million decrease in personnel-related costs mostly resulting from a lower stock-based and other compensation expenses, partially offset by worldwide salary increases and increases in headcount. These were partially offset by (i) a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expenses primarily related to Exensio and Cimetrix software, and (ii) a $0.1 million increase in third-party cloud-services related costs. Research and development expenses decreased $2.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to (i) a $3.1 million decrease in personnel-related costs mostly resulting from a lower stock-based and other compensation expenses, partially offset by worldwide salary increases and increases in headcount, and (ii) a $0.2 million decrease in facilities and IT-related costs including depreciation expense. These were partially offset by (i) a $0.7 million increase in subcontractor expenses primarily related to Exensio and Cimetrix software, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in third-party cloud-services related costs, and (iii) a $0.2 million increase in travel expenses. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of the size and the timing of product development projects. Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Selling, general, and administrative $ 14,766 $ 9,770 $ 4,996 51 % $ 30,411 $ 20,609 $ 9,802 48 % As a percentage of total revenues 35 % 28 % 37 % 30 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs including compensation, employee benefits, bonus, commission and stock-based compensation expense for sales, marketing, and general and administrative personnel, legal, tax and accounting services, marketing communications expenses, third-party cloud-services related costs, travel, IT, and facilities cost allocations. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $5.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to (i) a $4.6 million increase in personnel-related costs mainly resulting from increases in stock-based and other compensation expense, including commission, discretionary bonuses and employee benefit costs, headcount and worldwide salary increases, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in business acquisition costs, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in third-party cloud-services related costs, (iv) a $0.2 million increase in travel expenses, and (v) a $0.1 million increase in legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract. These were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in subcontractor expenses. 33 Table of Contents Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $9.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to (i) a $7.5 million increase in personnel-related costs mainly resulting from increases in stock-based and other compensation expense, including commission, discretionary bonuses and employee benefit costs, headcount and worldwide salary increases, (ii) a $1.8 million increase in legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, (iii) a $0.4 million increase in travel expenses, (iv) a $0.3 million increase in facilities and IT-related costs including depreciation expense, and (v) a $0.2 million increase in business acquisition costs. These were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in subcontractor expenses. We anticipate our selling, general, and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 326 $ 314 $ 12 4 % $ 651 $ 628 $ 23 4 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets primarily consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Interest and other expense (income), net $ (1,071) $ (991) $ (80) 8 % $ (1,982) $ (1,301) $ (681) 52 % Interest and other expense (income), net, primarily consists of interest income and foreign currency transaction exchange gains and losses. Interest and other expense (income), net increased $0.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to a higher interest income resulting from higher interest rates, partially offset by higher foreign currency exchange loss resulting from a net unfavorable fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. Interest and other expense (income), net increased $0.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to a higher interest income resulting from higher interest rates, partially offset by higher foreign currency exchange loss resulting from a net unfavorable fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, Change June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % Income tax expense (benefit) $ (3,888) $ 1,306 $ (5,194) (398) % $ (3,498) $ 2,493 $ (5,991) (240) % Income tax expense decreased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily due to changes in the foreign and state taxes and year-to-date recognition of worldwide pre-tax income (loss) in relation to their forecasted amounts for full years. 34 Table of Contents Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, new or changing tax legislation in the United States and in foreign countries where we are subject to tax jurisdictions, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, our ability to use tax attributes such as research and development tax credits and net operation losses, the tax effects of employee stock activity, audit examinations with adverse outcomes, changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2023, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $152.3 million, compared to $135.2 million as of December 31, 2022. Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were $124.0 million as of June 30, 2023, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $139.2 million as of December 31, 2022. As of June 30, 2023, and December 31, 2022, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $11.3 million and $8.8 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, other obligations for at least the next twelve months. There has been no significant impact in respect to Liquidity and Capital Resources from the global COVID-19 pandemic. For risk discussion about the continuing impact of global COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or demand for our products, refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023. Cash Flow Data The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Six Months Ended June 30, (In thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (6,615) $ 6,620 $ (13,235) Investing activities (9,677) 71,993 (81,670) Financing activities (2,474) (24,370) 21,896 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (498) (584) 86 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (19,264) $ 53,659 $ (72,923) Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Cash flows used in operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2023, consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible expense, amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts and net change in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash flows used in operating activities was $6.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to net cash flows provided by operating activities of $6.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The $13.2 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities between the periods was driven primarily by (i) an increase in accounts receivable from increased invoicing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, and (ii) payments made under the Companys bonus plan, partially offset by (a) an increase in deferred revenue due to timing of billing and revenue recognition, and (b) a significant increase in net income compared to the same period in 2022. Net income 35 Table of Contents was $7.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to a net loss of $5.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2023, were as follows: Accounts receivable increased by $19.3 million, primarily due to higher contractual invoicing activity and an increase in unbilled accounts receivables due to the timing of billing and revenue recognition, partially offset by collections from customers. Subsequent to June 30, 2023, we collected more than half of the total $44.9 million billed accounts receivable as of that date; Prepaid expense and other current assets increased by $7.5 million, primarily due to an increase in income tax receivable, contract assets and deferred commission; Accounts payable decreased by $2.8 million primarily due to the timing of payments of vendor invoices; Accrued compensation and related benefits decreased by $6.0 million primarily due to the payments of accrued bonuses and a decrease in accrued commissions, partially offset by an increase in accrued contributions to the employee stock purchase plan; and Deferred revenue increased by $7.4 million primarily due to the timing of billing and revenue recognition. Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $9.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $72.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, cash used in investing activities primarily related to purchases of short-term investments of $23.5 million and purchases of and prepayments for property and equipment of $6.0 million primarily related to our DFI and CV systems, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $19.8 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, cash provided by investing activities primarily related to proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $112.5 million, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments of $35.9 million, and purchases of and prepayments for property and equipment of $4.6 million primarily related to our DFI and CV systems. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $2.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to $24.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2022. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $4.6 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.1 million of proceeds from our employee stock purchase plans and exercise of stock options. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $22.5 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and $4.2 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.3 million of proceeds from our employee stock purchase plans and exercise of stock options. 36 Table of Contents Related Party Transactions Refer to Note 12, Strategic Partnership Agreement with Advantest and Related Party Transactions, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the discussion about related party transactions between the Company and Advantest (as defined therein). Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt.