Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings, or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2018. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We analyze our customers integrated circuit ("IC") design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield, and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us with various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software and hardware that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend The logic foundry market at the leading edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm, is undergoing significant change. The leading foundry has increased market share as other foundries either suspended 7nm development or forecast a later start of mass production. This trend will likely negatively impact our future business on these nodes unless we are able to engage on our Integrated Yield Ramp with that leading foundry. For many foundries, utilization rates for 28nm fabs remain suppressed. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Leading foundries continuing to invest in leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, and packaging, multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue for the next few years. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes. Generally, the demand for consumer electronics and communications devices continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will create a greater need for products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. 24 Table of Contents Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are noncancelable. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 14 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. During the third quarter of 2018, we were notified by a major customer that it was discontinuing the development and production of its 7nm technology node. This customers decision will negatively impact our solutions and Gainshare performance incentives revenues for the 7nm technology node. We cannot assess the ultimate resolution of this noncancelable contract at the current time pending further discussion with the customer. We expect Gainshare performance incentives revenues related to this contract will not be recognized in the long-term as Gainshare performance incentives revenues are based on future production of the customer. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, Customers, on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 13 through 19 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were summarized as follows: Total revenues were $20.2 million, which was a decrease of $6.3 million, or 24%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenues were $14.0 million, which was a decrease of $5.3 million, or 27%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue was primarily related to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio software revenues. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $6.2 million, a decrease of $1.1 million, or 14%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare performance incentives, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Net loss was $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to net income of $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to 24% lower total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the year-ago period. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.06) for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.02, for the three months ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of $0.08 per basic and diluted share. Financial highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, were as follows: Total revenues were $66.1 million, which was a decrease of $9.0 million, or 12%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenues were $47.4 million, which was a decrease of $8.0 million, or 14%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue was primarily related to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio software revenues. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $18.6 million, a decrease of $1.0 million, or 6%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in Gainshare performance incentives revenue was primarily due to lower incentives revenue from the 28nm nodes, partially offset by higher incentives revenue from the 14nm nodes. 25 Table of Contents Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, was 50%, compared to 53% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Net loss was $4.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to net income of $1.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease in net income was primarily attributable to lower total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period and a $0.9 million decrease in income tax benefit primarily due to lower excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation and the impact of the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, such as, a decrease in the maximum federal tax rate from 35% to 21%. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.14) for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to net income per basic and diluted share of $0.04, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of $0.18 per basic and diluted share. Cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased by $4.5 million to $96.8 million at September 30, 2018, from $101.3 million at December 31, 2017, due primarily to cash used in investing activities related to the development of our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) solution and property and equipment purchased for the new office headquarters and cash used in financing activities primarily due to repurchases of our common stock, partially offset by cash generated from operating activities during the nine months period ended September 30, 2018. Critical Accounting Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. With the exception of the changes made to our revenue recognition policy as a result of the adoption of ASC 606, there have been no material changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Design-to-silicon-yield Solutions and Gainshare performance incentives. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions We recognize revenue for each element of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions as follows: We generate a significant portion of our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue from fixed-price solution implementation service contracts delivered over a specific period of time. Revenue under projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of costs or hours at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by us to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated (cumulative catch-up method). 26 Table of Contents On occasion, we include our products as a component of our fixed-price service contracts. In such instances, we determine whether the services performed and products included are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation and therefore follows the pattern of transfer as the service is provided. We apply a measure of progress (typically hours-to-hours or cost-to-cost) to any fixed consideration. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are performed using the percentage-of-completion method. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. We also license our DFI system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their standalone selling prices, or SSP. In such instances, we apply judgment to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. We license some of our software products separately from solution implementations, primarily our Exensio software platform and related products. The majority of these products are delivered as on-premise software licenses, while others can be delivered entirely or partially through Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or cloud delivery models. Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support subscription is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing (i) a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and (ii) unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based license software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time. The license component is recognized at the time of the delivery of the software license, with the post-contract support subscription component being recognized ratably over for the committed term of the contract. Revenue from software hosting or SaaS arrangements that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and are recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. Gainshare p erformance i ncentives When we enter into a contract to provide yield improvement services, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by the Company of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer pays a variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended, related to the usage of the Company's intellectual property. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare performance incentive periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We recorded Gainshare revenue as a usage-based royalty in accordance with customers' usage of intellectual property and recorded in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes We are required to assess whether it is more-likely-than-not that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and if we believe that they are not likely to be realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets then, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a financial reporting period are recorded through the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The valuation allowance was approximately $9.4 million and $9.1 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses related to an acquisition that we currently do not believe to be "more-likely-than-not" to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time more-likely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will decrease in the period in which we make such determination. Our income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as an income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of operations. The Company intends to reinvest the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, the Company has not provided for any taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of September 30, 2018. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the unrecognized tax liability at this time. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statement. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 13,976 $ 19,229 (27%) $ 47,431 $ 55,426 (14%) Gainshare performance incentives 6,237 7,288 (14%) 18,638 19,668 (5%) Total revenues $ 20,213 $ 26,517 (24%) $ 66,069 $ 75,094 (12%) Design-to-silicon-yield solutions as a percentage of total revenues 69 % 73 % 72 % 74 % Gainshare performance incentives as a percentage of total revenues 31 % 27 % 28 % 26 % Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software licenses, provided during our customer yield improvement engagements as well as during solution product sales. Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue decreased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago periods due primarily to the decrease in revenue from our yield ramp solutions due to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio software revenues that were driven by strong business activities. Our Design-to-silicon-yield solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business, or if any of our significant customers, who have entered into a time and materials contract, take advantage of certain contractual provisions that permit the suspension of contracted work for a period if their business experiences a financial hardship. Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent royalties and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased $1.1 million and $1.0 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, compared to the year-ago periods due primarily to lower gainshare performance incentives revenue from the 28nm nodes, partially offset by higher incentives revenue from the 14nm nodes. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new Design-to-silicon-yield solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 10,539 $ 12,295 (14%) $ 32,651 $ 34,913 (6%) Amortization of acquired technology 144 136 6% 431 327 32% Total costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions $ 10,683 $ 12,431 (14%) $ 33,082 $ 35,240 (6%) As a percentage of total revenues 53 % 47 % 50 % 47 % Costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions consist of service and software licenses costs. Service costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software used by the Company in providing services to our customers in solution engagements, or sold in conjunction with our software products. 28 Table of Contents Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to a $1.7 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and project costs. Amortization of acquired technology for the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased slightly due to the amortization of acquired technology from our acquisition of certain assets from Realtime Performance Europe B.V. (dba Kinesys Software). Direct costs of Design-to-silicon-yield solutions decreased for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period due primarily to a $2.1 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount. Amortization of acquired technology for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, slightly increased due to the amortization of acquired technology from our acquisition of certain assets from Kinesys Software. Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Research and development $ 6,755 $ 7,875 (14%) $ 21,100 $ 22,432 (6%) As a percentage of total revenues 33 % 30 % 32 % 30 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, third-party development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period due primarily to a $1.1 million decrease in personnel-related expense as a result of lower headcount. Research and development expenses decreased for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period due primarily to a $1.5 million decrease in personnel-related expense, partially offset by a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense for lab equipment. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Selling, general and administrative $ 5,507 $ 5,680 (3%) $ 17,801 $ 17,775 0% As a percentage of total revenues 27 % 21 % 27 % 24 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a $0.2 million decrease in professional fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a $0.1 million increase in personnel-related expense, partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in professional fees. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 108 $ 107 1% $ 326 $ 291 12% 29 Table of Contents Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired from business combinations. The increase in amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period, was primarily related to the amortization of other acquired intangible assets, which resulted from the acquisition of certain assets from Kinesys Software. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ 223 $ (104 ) 314% $ 283 $ (305 ) 193% Interest and other income (expense), net increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago periods, primarily due to foreign exchange rate movements and an increase in interest income due to higher interest rates. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 Percent Change 2018 2017 Percent Change Income tax benefit $ (535 ) $ (270 ) 98% $ (1,355 ) $ (2,246 ) (40%) Income tax benefit increased by $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to higher pre-tax operating loss. Income tax benefit decreased by $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to lower excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation and the impact of recently enacted U.S. tax reform, such as, a decrease in the maximum federal tax rate from 35% to 21% and GILTI. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2018, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $139.8 million, compared to $144.3 million as of December 31, 2017. Cash and cash equivalents were $96.8 million as of September 30, 2018, compared to $101.3 million as of December 31, 2017. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $3.8 million and $3.1 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. Nine Months Ended September 30, (In thousands) 2018 2017 Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 9,043 $ 6,261 Investing activities (8,747 ) (10,783 ) Financing activities (4,658 ) (11,687 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (117 ) 172 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,479 ) $ (16,037 ) 30 Table of Contents Our primary cash inflows and outflows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, were as follows: During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $9.0 million compared to $6.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The $2.7 million increase in net cash from operating activities was driven primarily by $8.2 million increase in the net change from operating assets and liabilities, which was partially offset by a $5.9 million increase in net loss. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, were as follows: Accounts receivable decreased by $5.7 million due primarily to significant collections from one large customer. Other noncurrent assets decreased by $2.4 million due to billings to customers for unbilled receivables that had reached billing milestones. Accrued compensation and related benefits decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to bonus payout, vacation taken and ESPP purchases during the period. Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $3.4 million due to contract assets resulting from the effect of adopting Topic 606. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $8.7 million compared to $10.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, cash flows used in investing activities consisted of payments for capital expenditures which included purchases of test equipment, furniture and fixture and leasehold improvements for the new office headquarters. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, cash flows used in investing activities primarily consisted of payments for capital expenditures, primarily test equipment and cash paid for acquisition of business. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $4.7 million compared to $11.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, cash flows used in financing activities consisted of $5.2 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $1.7 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.3 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the exercise of stock options. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, cash flows used in financing activities consisted of $13.4 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $2.4 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $4.2 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of September 30, 2018: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2018 (remaining three months) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations (1) $ 357 $ 1,659 $ 1,813 $ 1,654 $ 1,483 $ 4,799 $ 11,765 Purchase obligations (2) 3,893 5,691 243 155 5 - 9,987 Total (3) $ 4,250 $ 7,350 $ 2,056 $ 1,809 $ 1,488 $ 4,799 $ 21,752 (1) In April 2018, we entered into a new approximately 20,800 square foot lease, located in Santa Clara, California. The term of the new lease is ten years commencing on September 1, 2018. The total lease obligation over the new lease term is approximately $7.3 million, less a lease abatement allowance of approximately $0.4 million. The terms of the new lease include a tenant improvement allowance of $1.5 million. Future minimum lease payments under the lease are included in the above table. (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.9 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 31 Table of Contents