Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We analyze our customers integrated circuit (IC) design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software and hardware that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend The logic foundry market at the leading edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm, is undergoing significant change. The leading foundry has increased market share as other foundries have either suspended 7nm development, forecasted a later start of mass production, or started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely negatively impact our future yield ramp solutions business on these nodes. For many foundries, utilization rates for 28nm fabs remain suppressed. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue for at least the next few years. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes and continue to engage foreign suppliers. Generally, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will create a greater need for products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. 25 Table of Contents The interest in Industry 4.0 (i.e., the fourth industrial revolution or the digital transformation of manufacturing technologies) is another trend that should drive increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing. The ability to add cost-effective sensors to monitor every step of a manufacturing process and the continual reduction in the cost per terabyte of data storage is moving companies that manufacture products directly or through a supply chain to collect as much manufacturing and test data as possible in order to analyze it and optimize every aspect of manufacturing and test operations to lower costs and improve product quality and profitability. Many software companies, both large and small, are developing advanced analytics solutions that employ both artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to identify and optimize these inefficiencies in the manufacturing supply chain. We believe that this trend will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in finding new insights will create opportunities for companies that have a combination of advanced analytics capabilities, domain-specific IP, and professional services. Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues is concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Solutions revenue and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 14 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. For example, during the third quarter of 2018, a major customer publicly announced that it was indefinitely suspending the development and production of its 7nm technology node. This customers decision negatively impacted our Solutions revenue in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Gainshare performance incentives revenues in the first quarter of 2019. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the 7nm technology development agreement with this customer. Even though we were able to recognize Solutions revenue from this customer during the first quarter of 2019 as a result of this amendment, we expect that Gainshare performance incentives revenues related to this contract will not be recognized in the long-term as Gainshare performance incentives revenues are based on the future production of the customer. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, Customers, on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 12 through 21 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended June 30, 2019, were as follows: Total revenues were $20.6 million, which was a decrease of $0.6 million, or 3%, compared to the year-ago period. Solutions revenue was $13.4 million, which was a decrease of $1.8 million, or 12%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in Solutions revenue was primarily due to the decrease in revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by higher business activity. Deferred revenue for the second fiscal quarter of 2019 includes $1.0 million associated with one customer in China that is significantly delinquent in payments, which revenue we expect to recognize in the future when it is more than likely that such payments will be made in the near term. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $7.1 million, an increase of $1.3 million, or 22%, compared to the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to higher Gainshare performance incentives revenue from 14nm technology node. Gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was 62%, compared to 48% for the year-ago period. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, our gross profit was significantly higher than the prior period due primarily to an increase in Gainshare performance incentives and reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.2 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lower solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management efforts. 26 Table of Contents Net loss was $0.7 million, compared to a net loss of $2.1 million for the year-ago period. The decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to (i) a $1.8 million decrease in cost of solutions and operating expenses related to a decrease in personnel-related costs driven by lower headcount, hardware and equipment, travel, and subcontractor expenses and accounting and audit fees, partially offset by increase in legal fees, facilities and depreciation and amortization expense, and (ii) a higher tax benefit mainly driven by the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal 2019 and 2018, and higher excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago period. The decreases in costs of solutions and operating expenses and higher tax benefit for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in total revenues. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.02) for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to net loss per basic and diluted share of $(0.07), for the three months ended June 30, 2018, a decrease of $0.05 per basic and diluted share. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $9.3 million to $86.8 million at June 30, 2019, from $96.1 million at December 31, 2018, primarily due to cash used in investing activities related to the property and equipment purchased for the development our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) solution, expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and a payment for a business acquisition, and cash used in financing activities primarily due to repurchases of our common stock. Financial highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2019, were as follows: Total revenues were $41.1 million, which was a decrease of $4.7 million, or 10%, compared to the compared to the year-ago period. Solutions revenues were $30.1 million, which was a decrease of $3.4 million, or 10%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in solutions revenue was primarily related to lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by higher business activity. Deferred revenue for the second fiscal quarter of 2019 includes $1.0 million associated with one customer in China that is significantly delinquent in payments, which revenue we expect to recognize in the future when it is more than likely that such payments will be made in the near term. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $11.0 million, a decrease of $1.4 million, or 11%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in Gainshare performance incentives revenue was primarily due to lower incentives revenue from the 28nm technology node. Gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was 62%, compared to 51% for the year-ago period. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, our gross profit was significantly higher than the prior period due primarily to recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, without which our gross margin would be approximately 3.5% lower, and a reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $5.0 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a provision for discretionary employee bonuses for fiscal year 2019, (ii) a $0.9 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lower solutions revenue, (iii) a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and (iv) a $0.3 million decrease in facilities expense. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by a $1.4 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives. Net loss was $3.4 million, compared to a net loss of $2.5 million for the year-ago period. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to 10% lower revenues, partially offset by (i) a $3.7 million decrease in cost of solutions and operating expenses related to a decrease in personnel-related costs driven by lower headcount, hardware and equipment, travel, operating lease and subcontractor expenses and accounting and audit fees, partially offset by increase in recruiting and legal fees, facilities and depreciation and amortization expenses, and (ii) a higher tax benefit mainly driven by the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal 2019 and 2018, and higher excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago period. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.10) for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to net loss per basic and diluted share of $(0.08), for the six months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $0.02 per basic and diluted share. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. With the exception of the changes made to our accounting for leases as a result of the adoption of ASC 842, there have been no material changes during the six months ended June 30, 2019 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Solutions revenue and Gainshare performance incentives. Solutions revenue We recognize revenue for each element of solutions revenue as follows: We license the majority of our software products separately from project-based solution implementation service contracts, in particular, our Exensio big data platform and related products. The majority of this software is delivered as on-premise software licenses, while others can be delivered entirely or partially through Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or cloud delivery models. Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support subscription is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based license software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time. The license component is recognized at a point in time, at the delivery of the software license, with the post-contract support subscription component being recognized ratably over for the committed term of the contract. Revenue from software hosting or SaaS arrangements that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. We also license our DFI system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts that are not project-based solutions implementation services contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables under these DFI contracts based on their standalone selling prices, or SSP. In such instances, we apply judgment to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. 28 Table of Contents We generate a portion of our solutions revenue from fixed-price, project-based solution implementation service contracts that are associated with our classic yield ramp business, which services are delivered over a specific period of time. Revenue under these projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, depending on whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of costs or hours at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by us to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated (the cumulative catch-up method). We typically include some of our products and other technology as components of our fixed-price, project-based services contracts. In such instances, we determine whether the services performed and products/technology included, are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation and therefore follows the pattern of transfer as the service is provided. We apply a measure of progress (typically hours-to-hours or cost-to-cost) to any fixed consideration. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are performed using the percentage of completion method. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a project-based solution implementation services contract, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by the Company of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer pays a variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended, related to continued usage of the Company's intellectual property. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare performance incentive periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We recorded Gainshare revenue as a usage-based royalty based on customers' usage of intellectual property and recorded in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes The Company's provision for income tax comprises its current tax liability and change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The measurement of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on provisions of enacted tax laws; the effect of future changes in tax laws or rates is not factored in. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that in managements judgment is more likely than not to be recoverable against future taxable income. No U.S. taxes are provided on earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent such earnings are deemed to be permanently invested. The Company's income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax laws. The Companys tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based upon its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different from the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Six Months Ended June 30 , 2019 and 2018 Revenues Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Solutions $ 13,429 $ 15,266 $ (1,837 ) (12 )% $ 30,090 $ 33,456 $ (3,366 ) (10 )% Gainshare performance incentives 7,139 5,853 1,286 22 % 11,019 12,400 (1,381 ) (11 )% Total revenues $ 20,568 $ 21,119 $ (551 ) (3 )% $ 41,109 $ 45,856 $ (4,747 ) (10 )% Solutions revenue as a percentage of total revenues 65 % 72 % 73 % 73 % Gainshare performance incentives as a percentage of total revenues 35 % 28 % 27 % 27 % Solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software and hardware licenses provided during our customer yield improvement engagements as well as during solution product sales. Solutions revenue decreased $1.8 million and $3.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago periods, due primarily to the decrease in the revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by higher business activity. Deferred revenue for the second fiscal quarter of 2019 includes $1.0 million associated with one customer in China that is significantly delinquent in payments, which revenue we expect to recognize in the future when it is more than likely that such payments will be made in the near term. Our Solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent royalties and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives increased by $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to higher Gainshare performance incentives revenues from 14nm technology node. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased by $1.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to lower Gainshare performance incentives revenues from 28nm technology node during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Gross Margin Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Solutions $ 5,597 $ 4,349 $ 1,248 29 % $ 14,390 $ 11,057 $ 3,333 30 % Gainshare performance incentives 7,139 5,853 1,286 22 % 11,019 12,400 (1,381 ) (11 )% Gross profit $ 12,736 $ 10,202 $ 2,534 25 % $ 25,409 $ 23,457 $ 1,952 8 % Gross margin Solutions revenue 27 % 20 % 35 % 24 % G ross margin Gainshare performance incentives 35 % 28 % 27 % 27 % G ross margin Total Company 62 % 48 % 62 % 51 % 30 Table of Contents Gross margin increased for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to an increase in Gainshare performance incentives and reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.2 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lesser solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort. Gross margin increased for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, without which our gross margin would be approximately 3.5% lower, and reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $5.0 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a provision for discretionary employee bonuses for fiscal year 2019, (ii) a $0.9 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lesser solutions revenue, (iii) a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and (iv) a $0.3 million decrease in facilities expense. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by a $1.4 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives Research and Development Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ % 2019 2018 $ % Research and development $ 7,312 $ 7,100 $ 212 3 % $ 15,558 $ 14,345 $ 1,213 8 % Research and development as a percentage of total revenues 36 % 34 % 38 % 31 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses slightly increased for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.1 million increase in personnel-related cost driven primarily by salary expenses related to our annual merit performance program, and higher payroll expenses charged due to the shifting of more resources from our yield ramp business to research and development activities, and (ii) a $0.3 million increase in facilities and other expenses. These increases in research and development expense were partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions. Research and development expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period due primarily to (i) a $1.4 million increase in personnel-related expense driven by an increase in stock based compensation expense of $0.9 million, higher payroll expenses charged due to the shifting of more resources from our yield ramp business to research and development activities, a provision for discretionary employee bonuses for fiscal year 2019, and salary expenses related to our worldwide merit increases, and (ii) a $0.3 million increase in facilities expense. These increases in research and development expense were partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. 31 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 6,940 $ 5,919 $ 1,021 17 % $ 13,950 $ 12,294 $ 1,656 13 % Selling, general and administrative as a percentage of total revenues 34 % 28 % 34 % 27 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.9 million increase in personnel-related expenses driven by higher payroll expenses allocated to selling and marketing activities as a result of shifting of resources from our yield ramp business, provision for discretionary and other employee bonuses for fiscal year 2019 and increase in accrued vacation benefits, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation, (ii) a $0.4 million increase in legal expense due primarily to a business acquisition, and (iii) $0.2 million increase in facilities and depreciation and amortization expense. These increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in professional fees due to lower audit fees, a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and a $0.1 million decrease in operating lease expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $1.6 million increase in personnel-related expenses driven by higher payroll expenses allocated to selling and marketing activities as a result of the shifting of resources from our yield ramp business, a provision for discretionary employee bonuses for fiscal year 2019 and increase in accrued vacation benefits, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation, (ii) a $0.3 million increase in legal expense due primarily related to a business acquisition, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in recruiting expense, and (iv) a $0.3 million increase in facilities and depreciation and amortization expense. These increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in professional fees due to lower audit fees, a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort, and a $0.2 million decrease in operating lease expense. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 154 $ 108 $ 46 43 % $ 262 $ 217 $ 45 21 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combination. The increase in amortization of other acquired intangible assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago periods, was primarily related to amortization of other acquired intangible assets related to acquisition of certain assets from StreamMosaic, Inc. 32 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Interest and other income (expense), net $ 111 $ 390 $ (279 ) (72 )% $ 105 $ 59 $ 46 78 % Interest and other income (expense), net, primarily consists of interest income and foreign currency transaction exchange gain (loss). Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to net unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Interest and other income (expense), net, slightly increased for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to increase in interest income and decrease in other charges. Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 201 9 201 8 $ % 201 9 201 8 $ % Income tax benefit $ (849 ) $ (439 ) $ 410 93 % $ (947 ) $ (820 ) $ 127 15 % Income tax benefit increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago periods, primarily due to the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal year 2019 and 2018, and higher excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2019, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $126.7 million, compared to $137.7 million as of December 31, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents were $86.8 million as of June 30, 2019, compared to $96.1 million as of December 31, 2018. As of June 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $5.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 4,966 $ 9,719 $ (4,753 ) Investing activities (6,664 ) (4,810 ) (1,854 ) Financing activities (7,556 ) (5,201 ) (2,355 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (18 ) (59 ) 41 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (9,272 ) $ (351 ) $ (8,921 ) 33 Table of Contents Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 mostly consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred tax assets. The $4.8 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by (i) a $0.9 million increase in net loss, (ii) a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net loss by $0.1 million primarily due to an increase in deferred tax assets of $0.7 million, and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $0.4 million, and (iii) a $3.8 million decrease in net change from operating assets and liabilities. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were as follows: Accounts receivable increased by $0.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to a decreased in accounts receivable by $4.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 contributing to a higher net cash flows provided by operating activities in the year ago period. Our days of sales outstanding, or DSO, increased from 135 days at December 31, 2018 to 172 days at June 30, 2019, and includes three slow paying customers in Asia. Had it not been for these three customers, our DSO at June 30, 2019 would have been 105 days. One customer has received a contractual dispute notice from us demanding payment. Under the dispute notice, the Companys management agrees to meet to resolve the payment matter. If the dispute is not resolved, the matter would proceed to binding arbitration. We believe that we have honored the contract and would prevail in any arbitration. The customer represents 37 days of the DSO. Two other customers have administrative issues, which are being resolved. Accounts receivable balances from these customers when combined represent 67 days of DSO. Deferred revenue increased by $1.2 million primarily due to timing of billing and revenue recognition. Net Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the year-ago period. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, cash flows used in investing activities related to (i) a $4.1 million property and equipment purchased primarily related to the construction of our DFI solution and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room and (ii) a $2.7 million payment for a business acquisition. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, cash flows used in investing activities related to property and equipment purchased for the development of our DFI solution. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by $2.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year-ago period. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $7.7 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $1.5 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.6 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, net cash used in financing activities consisted of $5.2 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $1.4 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.4 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. 34 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of June 30, 2019: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2019 (remaining six months) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations(1) $ 882 $ 1,862 $ 1,711 $ 1,526 $ 1,167 $ 3,673 $ 10,821 Purchase obligations(2) 8,147 2,274 555 8 10,984 Total(3) $ 9,029 $ 4,136 $ 2,266 $ 1,534 $ 1,167 $ 3,673 $ 21,805 (1) Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) for further discussion. (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $3.0 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) for further discussion.