Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We analyze our customers IC design and manufacturing processes to identify, quantify, and correct the issues that cause yield loss to improve our customers profitability by improving time-to-market, increasing yield and reducing total design and manufacturing costs. We package our solutions in various ways to meet our customers specific business and budgetary needs, each of which provides us various revenue streams. We receive a mix of fixed fees and variable, performance-based fees for the vast majority of our yield improvement solutions. The fixed fees are typically reflective of the length of time and the resources needed to characterize a customers manufacturing process and receive preliminary results of proposed yield improvement suggestions. We receive license fees and service fees for related installation, integration, training, and maintenance and support services for our software and hardware that we license on a stand-alone basis. Industry Trend The logic foundry market at the leading edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm, is undergoing significant change. The leading foundry has increased market share as other foundries either suspended 7nm development or forecasted a later start of mass production. This trend will likely negatively impact our future yield ramp solutions business on these nodes. For many foundries, utilization rates for 28nm fabs remain suppressed. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue for at least the next few years. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes. Generally, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will create a greater need for products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. 23 Table of Contents The interest in Industry 4.0 (i.e., the fourth industrial revolution or the digital transformation of manufacturing technologies) is another trend that will drive increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing. The ability to add cost-effective sensors to monitor every step of a manufacturing process and the continual reduction in the cost per terabyte of data storage is moving companies that manufacture products directly or through a supply chain to collect as much manufacturing and test data as possible in order to analyze it and optimize every aspect of manufacturing and test operations to lower costs and improve product quality and profitability. Many software companies, both large and small, are developing advanced analytics solutions that employ both artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to identify and optimize these inefficiencies in the manufacturing supply chain. We believe that this trend will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in finding new insights will create opportunities for companies that have a combination of advanced analytics capabilities, domain-specific IP, and professional services. Customer Contracts Although a substantial portion of our total revenues are concentrated in a small number of customers, the total revenues for each of these customers in any period is the result of Solutions revenue and Gainshare performance incentives revenues recognized in the period under multiple, separate contracts, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. These contracts were all entered into in the ordinary course of our business and contain general terms and conditions that are standard across most of our yield improvement solutions customers, including providing services typically targeted to one manufacturing process node, for example the 28 or 14 nanometer node. Fluctuations in future results may occur if any of these customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments due to adverse changes in their own business. For example, during the third quarter of 2018, a major customer publicly announced that it was indefinitely suspending the development and production of its 7nm technology node. This customers decision negatively impacted our Solutions revenue in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Gainshare performance incentives revenues in the first quarter of 2019. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the 7nm technology development agreement with this customer. Even though we were able to recognize Solutions revenue from this customer during the first quarter of 2019 as a result of this amendment, we expect that Gainshare performance incentives revenues related to this contract will not be recognized in the long-term as Gainshare performance incentives revenues are based on future production of the customer. See the additional discussion in Part I, Item 1, Customers, on page 9 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors, on pages 12 through 21 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for related information on the risks associated with customer concentration and Gainshare performance incentives revenue. Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were as follows: Total revenues were $20.5 million, which was a decrease of $4.2 million, or 17%, compared to the year-ago period. Solutions revenue was $16.7 million, which was a decrease of $1.5 million, or 8%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease in Solutions revenue was primarily due to the decrease in revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by strong business activity. Gainshare performance incentives revenue was $3.9 million, a decrease of $2.7 million, or 41%, compared to the year-ago period. The decrease was primarily due to lower Gainshare performance incentives revenue from 28nm and 14nm technology nodes. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 62%, compared to 54% for the year-ago period. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, our gross profit was significantly higher than the prior period due primarily to recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment, and reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.7 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by (i) lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a provision for discretionary employee bonus for fiscal 2019, (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lesser solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by a $2.7 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives. 24 Table of Contents Net loss was $2.7 million, compared to net loss of $0.4 million for the year-ago period. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to 17% lower revenues, and a lower tax benefit mainly driven by the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal 2019 and 2018, and lower excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago period, partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in cost of solutions and operating expenses related to a decrease in personnel-related costs driven by lower headcount, decrease in equipment, travel and subcontractor expenses, and foreign exchange loss. Net loss per basic and diluted share was $(0.08) for the three months ended March 31, 2019, which was an increase in net loss of $0.07 per basic and diluted share, compared to net loss per basic and diluted share of ($0.01), for the year-ago period. Cash, cash equivalents and investments decreased $5.7 million to $90.4 million at March 31, 2019, from $96.1 million at December 31, 2018, primarily due to cash used in investing activities related to the property and equipment purchased for the development our DFI solution, new office headquarters and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and cash used in financing activities primarily due to repurchases of our common stock. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. With the exception of the changes made to our accounting for leases as a result of the adoption of ASC 842, there have been no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2019 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenues from two sources: Solutions revenue and Gainshare performance incentives. Solutions revenue We recognize revenue for each element of solutions revenue as follows: We license the majority of our software products separately from project-based solution implementation service contracts, in particular, our Exensio big data platform and related products. The majority of this software is delivered as on-premise software licenses, while others can be delivered entirely or partially through Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or cloud delivery models. Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the client, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support subscription is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing a service of standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed, and is providing unspecified software upgrades on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based license software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a 25 Table of Contents point in time or over time. The license component is recognized at a point in time, at the delivery of the software license, with the post-contract support subscription component being recognized ratably over for the committed term of the contract. Revenue from software hosting or SaaS arrangements that allow for the use of a hosted software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software are accounted for as subscriptions and recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the coverage period beginning on the date the service is made available to customers. We also license our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) system as a separate component of fixed-price service contracts that are not project-based solutions implementation services contracts. We allocate revenue to all deliverables under these DFI contracts based on their standalone selling prices, or SSP. In such instances, we apply judgment to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. We generate a significant portion of our solutions revenue from fixed-price, project-based solution implementation service contracts that are associated with its classic yield ramp business, which services are delivered over a specific period of time. Revenue under these projectbased contracts for solution implementation services is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of costs or hours at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by us to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs. Losses on fixed-price solution implementation contracts are recognized in the period when they become probable. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the conditions that require the revisions become known and can be estimated (cumulative catch-up method). We typically include some of our products and other technology as components of our fixed-price, project-based services contracts. In such instances, we determine whether the services performed and products/technology included, are distinct. In most cases, the arrangement is a single performance obligation and therefore follows the pattern of transfer as the service is provided. We apply a measure of progress (typically hours-to-hours or cost-to-cost) to any fixed consideration. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are performed using the percentage of completion method. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. Gainshare Performance Incentives When we enter into a project-based solution implementation services contract, the contract usually includes two components: (1) a fixed fee for performance by the Company of services delivered over a specific period of time; and (2) a Gainshare performance incentive component where the customer pays a variable fee, usually after the fixed fee period has ended, related to continued usage of the Company's intellectual property. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare performance incentive periods are usually subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We recorded Gainshare revenue as a usage-based royalty based on customers' usage of intellectual property and recorded in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes The Company's provision for income tax comprises its current tax liability and change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The measurement of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on provisions of enacted tax laws; the effect of future changes in tax laws or rates are not anticipated. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that in managements judgment is more likely than not to be recoverable against future taxable income. No U.S. taxes are provided on earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent such earnings are deemed to be permanently invested. The Company's income tax calculations are based on application of the respective U.S. federal, state or foreign tax laws. The Companys tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based upon its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different from the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Solutions $ 16,661 $ 18,190 $ (1,529 ) (8 %) Gainshare performance incentives 3,880 6,547 (2,667 ) (41 %) Total revenues $ 20,541 $ 24,737 $ (4,196 ) (17 %) Solutions revenue as a percentage of total revenues 81 % 74 % Gainshare performance incentives as a percentage of total revenues 19 % 26 % Solutions revenue is derived from services (including solution implementations, software support and maintenance, consulting, and training) and software and hardware licenses provided during our customer yield improvement engagements as well as during solution product sales. Solutions revenue decreased $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to the decrease in the revenue from our yield ramp solutions resulting from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, which was partially offset by increases in Exensio big data solution revenues that were driven by strong business activity. Our Solutions revenue may fluctuate in the future and is dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Gainshare performance incentives revenues represent royalties and performance incentives earned contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined operational levels. Revenue derived from Gainshare performance incentives decreased by $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to lower Gainshare performance incentives revenues from 28nm and 14nm technology nodes. Our Gainshare performance incentives revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period. Gainshare performance incentives revenue is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new solutions contracts containing Gainshare performance incentives. Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Solutions $ 8,794 $ 6,708 $ 2,086 31 % Gainshare performance incentives 3,880 6,547 (2,667 ) (41 %) Gross profit $ 12,674 $ 13,255 $ (581 ) (4 %) Gross margin - Solutions revenue 53 % 37 % Gross m argin - G ainshare performance incentives 100 % 100 % Gross margin - Total Company 62 % 54 % Gross margin increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the year-ago period, due primarily to recognition of Solutions revenue of $3.3 million from a customer contract amendment, and reduction in headcount primarily related to our yield ramp business, which is a cost of revenues. Cost of solutions decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.7 million decrease in personnel-related cost driven by lower headcount and lower chargeable hours incurred across multiple contracts and customers, and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a provision for discretionary employee bonus for fiscal 2019, (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in hardware and equipment expense due to lesser solutions revenue, and (iii) a $0.3 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from our cost management effort. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by a $2.7 million decrease in Gainshare performance incentives. 27 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Research and development $ 8,246 $ 7,245 $ 1,001 14 % As a percentage of total revenues 40 % 29 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in personnel-related cost driven by an increase in stock based compensation expense of $0.8 million, higher payroll expenses charged due to shifting of more resources from our yield ramp business to research and development activities, a $0.2 million increase in facilities expense, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and the timing of product development projects and revenue generating activity requirements. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ 7,011 $ 6,375 $ 636 10 % As a percentage of total revenues 34 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) $0.7 million increase in personnel-related expenses driven by higher payroll expenses allocated to selling and marketing activities as a result of shifting of resources from our yield ramp business, (ii) partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in professional fees due to lower audit fees. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 108 $ 109 $ (1 ) (1 %) Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combination. 28 Table of Contents Restructuring charges Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Restructuring charges $ 92 $ $ 92 100 % Restructuring charges for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were primarily related to employee separation charges incurred as part of the Companys restructuring plan announced on September 27, 2018, to reduce expenses and align its operations with evolving business needs. See Note 7, Restructuring Charges, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for more information regarding this restructuring plan. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ (6 ) $ (331 ) $ (325) (98 %) Interest and other income (expense), net, primarily consists of interest income and foreign currency transaction exchange gain (loss). Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to net favorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended March 31, $ % (Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Change Income tax benefit $ (98 ) $ (381 ) $ (283) (74 %) Income tax benefit decreased $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to the changes in forecasted income/loss between fiscal 2019 and 2018, and lower excess tax benefit for employee stock compensation compared to the year-ago period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $131.2 million, compared to $137.7 million as of December 31, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents were $90.4 million as of March 31, 2019, compared to $96.1 million as of December 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $3.0 million and $4.1 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the next twelve months. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (151 ) $ 3,252 $ (3,403 ) Investing activities (2,357 ) (2,447 ) 90 Financing activities (3,174 ) (3,634 ) 460 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 8 84 (76 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (5,674 ) $ (2,745 ) $ (2,929 ) 29 Table of Contents Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 mostly consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred tax assets. The $3.4 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by a $2.3 million increase in net loss, a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net loss by $1.6 million primarily due to an increase in deferred tax assets of $2.2 million, and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $0.6 million, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in net change from operating assets and liabilities. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were as follows: Accounts receivable increased by $1.6 million primarily due to slower payments from a few customers despite a decrease in revenues. Days of sales outstanding, or DSO, increased primarily due to slower payments by certain customers in Asia. We have not incurred any significant write-offs of accounts receivable during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and in fiscal year 2018. Billings in excess of recognized revenues increased by $0.9 million primarily due to timing of billing and revenue recognition. Net Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was flat for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared for the year-ago period. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, cash flows used in investing activities related to property and equipment purchased for the development our DFI solution, new office headquarters and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year-ago period. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $3.9 million cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and $0.6 million cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.3 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities of $3.6 million, consisted of $4.1 million repurchases of common stock, $0.6 million of cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.0 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of March 31, 2019: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations 2019 (remaining nine months) 20 2 0 2021 2022 2023 2024 and thereafter Total Operating lease obligations(1) $ 1,381 $ 1,870 $ 1,719 $ 1,536 $ 1,175 $ 3,673 $ 11,354 Purchase obligations(2) 7,149 678 401 8 4 8,240 Total(3) $ 8,530 $ 2,548 $ 2,120 $ 1,544 $ 1,179 $ 3,673 $ 19,594 (1) Refer to Note 4, Leases of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $3.2 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.