Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends;the impact of rising global inflation and increased interest rates; expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; the continuing impact of macroeconomic conditions on the semiconductor industry and our business; supply chain disruptions; possible impacts from the evolving trade regulatory environment and geopolitical tensions; and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this Form 10-K, especially those contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The words may, anticipate, plan, continue, could, projected, expect, believe, intend, and assume, the negative of these terms and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and based on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to fiscal year apply to our fiscal year that ends on December 31. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business We provide comprehensive data solutions designed to empower organizations across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystems to improve the yield and quality of their products and operational efficiency for increased profitability. We derive revenues from two sources, Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Our offerings contribute to Analytics revenue through contract fees for on-premise software and hardware system licenses, software-as-a-service (SaaS), and other professional services. Certain of our Characterization services engagements contribute to Integrated Yield Ramp revenue through contract fees and a value-based, variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare. We are headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. Business Overview Our customers include Fortune 500 companies across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystem. These companies use our products and services to achieve various goals depending on whether they are integrated device manufacturers (IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, equipment manufacturers, electronics manufacturing suppliers (EMS), original device manufacturers (ODMs), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSATs), or system houses. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Higher yields in less time can also mean less total raw materials and process runs, which help lower customers total cost and minimize environmental impact. Also, equipment manufacturers and factories use our connectivity products to implement evolving industry standards for their equipment or operations, respectively, with required quality and stability. By way of further example, our IDM and fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time for designs to meet performance requirements with fewer iterations and faster time-to-market. For final example, our foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, and/or test. Our mission is to provide innovative solutions to create, access, and organize data to enable analysis and control for semiconductor and electronics companies to achieve better time-to-market, yields, quality, and operational efficiencies. Our strategy to achieve this is as follows: Offer a Common, Flexible Platform for a Broad Group of Customers Across the Supply Chain. As semiconductor and electronics products are made with the efforts of equipment manufacturers, front-end foundries, chip and system designers, design automation, intellectual property (IP) providers, and OSATs, there is a need to analyze data across this whole chain to optimize yields, operational efficiencies, time to market, quality, and reliability. Our comprehensive platform is designed based on industry standards and integrated with leading solutions providers to enable these different participants to analyze the relevant end-to-end data in near real-time, with cloud or on-premise data stores from 10s to 100s of terabytes (TBs) and flexible configurations for IDM, foundry, fabless, and OSAT specific needs. Our ML solutions combine professional services with our Exensio software to further enable our customers to push their analytics to the edge of their global supply chains and shift the analysis and decision-making processes closer to where their data is being generated. We believe enabling edge analytics will further increase our customers ability to improve product yield, quality, performance, and profitability, and therefore, should drive the market for our products and services. Drive Tool-Level Software Installations to Create an Infrastructure of Connected Equipment and Enable Smart Factories. We believe that driving installation of our Exensio and Cimetrix software products at the tool level will help provide an infrastructure of connected equipment and help to enable smart factories. Our Cimetrix products are based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories, which we believe will be more in demand in the smart manufacturing era. Further, we believe that the 4 Table of Contents benefits from integration between analytics on equipment, the factory, and in the cloud will provide synergies with our existing end-to-end analytics offerings. Create Differentiated Data Sources for Better Analytics. Historically, companies have only used data that was generated from their manufacturing and test process to drive improvements. We offer unique IP (such as Characterization Vehicle test chips, also branded CV test chips) that is not part of an integrated circuits (IC) functionality, but significantly improves the manufacturing process by improving yield learning and reducing time to market. Also, our Design-for-Inspection system (also branded DFI system) identifies blockers that impact product yield and quality up to months earlier than any other hardware- or software-based methodology from proprietary e-beam measurement of product layout or provided on-chip instrumentation. We believe that in the More-than-Moore (MtM) era, the differentiated data we provide can play an important role in enabling our customers to bring new products to market faster and with higher quality and performance, and, ultimately, more profitability. Collaborate with Other Industry Leaders to Bring Additional Unique Data to Our Platform and Enable New and Differentiated Applications. We believe that the value we bring to semiconductor manufacturing can be leveraged with additional data and through differentiated applications. For example, in 2023, we started offering an enterprise application integration module called Sapience Manufacturing Hub, which is designed to collect and unify data from enterprise applications, such as manufacturing execution systems (MES), enterprise resource planning systems (ERP) like SAP S/4HANA, and our Exensio software, and make such data available through a central interface. Also in 2023, working with Siemens Digital Industries Software, we started offering two new Exensio modules, Exensio AIM Scan Analytics and Exensio AIM Scan Systematics Diagnostics, which are designed to enable diagnostic accuracy and efficiency of fail mode to help our customers that also use Siemenss Tessent software determine the electrical and physical failing locations for product and process improvements. Building relationships with other industry leaders is intended to provide more ways for mutual customers to leverage their process and product data as part of their Industry 4.0 initiatives. Differentiated applications that make use of this shared data are designed to provide unique insights to help customers achieve sustained profitability in their manufacturing. Brief History PDF Solutions was incorporated in Pennsylvania in November 1992, and we reincorporated in California in November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol PDFS. From 2000 through 2009, we expanded our technology footprint and our operations in various countries through acquisitions. From 2009 to 2019, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare royalties. In 2013, we leveraged our extensive experience in yield simulation software and CV test chip development and started research and development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical inspection and process control for wafer inspection. In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-integrated data analytics Exensio software, which resulted in accelerated growth in revenues from software through 2019. Starting in 2020, after our acquisition of Cimetrix Incorporated (Cimetrix), we began providing software products based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories. We released our first eProbe tool in 2015, the second generation in 2019, and the third generation in late 2022. The improvements in the third generation included: higher resolution and improved beam vector targeting, enabling use for leading-edge, middle-of-line applications; higher throughput; and better manufacturability and repeatable column performance. 5 Table of Contents Industry Background Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price and demand started to decrease near the end of the products life cycle. Today there are many different business models across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards fast-moving market segments like Internet of Things which utilize mature process nodes and require a fast ramp to volume with a relatively short life cycle, and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending on the level of design complexity and the maturity of the process node used for product implementation. Processors, memory and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) continue to leverage the most advanced process nodes and experience significant challenges to achieve competitive initial yields and optimized performance. Some products and market segments, however, are content to utilize older process nodes. Regardless of the process node used for implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated, among other things, on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield reclamation, product quality, and test efficiency, throughout a products life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. Technology and Intellectual Property Protection Our success is largely dependent upon our proprietary software. We believe the creative skills and technological ability of our personnel, product enhancements, and new product development are necessary to maintaining our position as a leading provider. We rely primarily on trade secret rights, copyright laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual agreements to protect our software. In addition, our success is dependent on various inventions we have made and we seek to protect certain of our IP under patent laws. As of December 31, 2023, we held 115 U.S. patents, with expiration dates on issued patents ranging from 2024 through 2042. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. Some of the technology we protect by patent includes elements of our CV and DFI systems and inventions related to AI/ML. We protect our trademarks with registration of marks, including Characterization Vehicle, Cimetrix, CV, eProbe, Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, and the PDF Solutions and Cimetrix logos. We have common law rights to additional trademarks, including ALPS, DFI, DirectProbe, DirectScan, Fire, and Sapience. We enter into confidentiality and inventions assignment agreements with our employees and confidentiality and license agreements with our customers and the various parties we partner with to resell, distribute, and, in some cases, integrate our products. Further, we limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Third parties could in any case develop competing technologies that include similar functionality or features, or otherwise are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries where we operate. Our business could suffer significantly if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, through yield, performance, and reliability improvement services over more than 20 years, we have accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and CV systems, our engineers create designs of experiments (DOEs) and layouts for targeted fail modes. We have also developed electrical measurement hardware tools and proprietary extraction, design, and analysis software. In addition, our technology embodies many production-proven and patented algorithms. Further, our IP includes proven methodologies that our implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers use of our technology. We strive to continually enhance our core technologies through the codification of knowledge that we gain in the use of our products and delivery of services. 6 Table of Contents Products and Services Products The primary software products and software and hardware systems of our platform include the following: Exensio Software. Our Exensio software products address the big data manufacturing challenge of todays advanced process nodes and highly integrated products, by providing a common environment throughout the supply chain for different data types, including inline and end-of-line metrology, yield, parametric, performance, manufacturing consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. Exensio products are designed to enable real-time rapid diagnosis and understanding of key manufacturing and test metrics during both inline and end-of-line wafer processing, helping customers reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. By integrating silos of data and applying AI and ML, Exensio products resolve the limitation of local optimization and provide better visibility across the entire production process, reducing the time it takes to make critical decisions that can drive higher product yield, quality and reliability. Our collaboration with strategic partners is intended to also integrate data from those partners products to make it available in Exensio and also to develop new applications to inter-operate with those products and enhance the value to mutual customers. For example, in 2023, we started offering Sapience Manufacturing Hub, which provides a single, common connectivity platform between enterprise applications, such as MES, ERP, and our Exensio software. Sapience Manufacturing Hub enables advanced applications including those for top management that benefit from more real-time and detailed insight into manufacturing. Our Exensio Foundry Product Costing module, which leverages Sapience Manufacturing Hub, provides more accurate insight into the gap between plan costs and actual costs, enabling actions to improve profitability. Exensio Foundry Product Costing module integrates with SAP S4/HANA due to our collaboration with SAP SE to enable this capability. Exensio software is available as either an on-premise license or SaaS and is offered in four main, separately-offered Exensio products targeting the needs of the customers business model: Exensio IDM, Exensio Fabless, Exensio Foundry, and Exensio OSAT. Each of these products are comprised of two or more modules to provide specific capabilities to address a particular type of companys needs and requirements; however, there are common features, functionality, and purpose across some of the key modules as follows: Manufacturing Analytics This module uses our proprietary database schema to store collected data in a common, unified environment with a consistent view. For example, product engineers use it to identify and analyze production yield, performance, reliability and other issues. Elements of this module are designed to handle very large and complex data sets that are commonplace in the semiconductor industry. To support the multi-dimensional product requirements of our customers, the powerful, interactive visualization and analysis capabilities in this product are highly flexible and user-configurable. Process Control This module provides failure detection and classification (FDC) capabilities for monitoring, alarming, and control of manufacturing tool sets. These capabilities include proprietary data collection and analysis of tool sensor trace data and summary indicators designed to rapidly identify sources of process variations and manufacturing excursions. When used together with Manufacturing Analytics and related modules, the accretive data mining and correlation capabilities are designed to enable identification of tool level sources of yield loss and process variation and enable predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, process adjustments, preventive maintenance scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer level and final test to impact end of line product yield, performance, and reliability. Test Operations This module provides comprehensive data collection and analysis capabilities for data generated during manufacturing test operations designed to optimize test operations management overall, including improving test productivity, performing part average test, supporting test floor operations, and implementing adaptive test. Test Operations is also designed to provide predictive insights based on proprietary analytics during test, assembly and packaging to maximize the efficiency of test operations, productivity improvements and yield reclamation. 7 Table of Contents Assembly Operations This module provides the capability to link assembly and packaging data with other product lifecycle data, including fabrication and characterization data, across the product life cycle. Data sources could include manufacturing, wafer acceptance test, wafer sort, test and assembly, final test, and field use. The proprietary data linkage enabled by Assembly Operations is also designed to enable device manufacturers to maintain full traceability of their finished products back to the source wafer without the need for Electronic Chip IDs (ECIDs). This capability is becoming an essential requirement for safety-critical market segments such as automotive and military-aerospace. Design-for-Inspection System. Our DFI system, which we have provided under a lease arrangement to some customers, leverages our production-proven design and analysis infrastructure and is designed to enable customers to achieve non-contact, inline electrical inspection of either our proprietary on-chip instruments or their product chip layout structures. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods for more effective process control and inline, direct inspection of product wafers. The DirectScan application of the DFI system includes our proprietary Exensio Characterization and Fire layout analysis software and the eProbe non-contact e-beam tool. The original application of the DFI system also included our on-chip instruments. These elements are described as follows: Proprietary Software Our Fire module is designed to analyze IC product layout features to help determine which parts of the product layout to inspect. Our Exensio Characterization module is designed to analyze the billions of measurements collected using the eProbe tool. As part of the system offering, we generally use the Characterization module to provide our customers analysis services, a summary of our findings, and recommendations. DFI On-Chip Instruments Our on-chip measurement instruments are tuned to capture key features of our customers product layouts, including those identified using the Fire module. As part of the system offering, we generally provide design services to create these instruments. These DFI instruments are designed to be placed in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses. eProbe Non-Contact E-Beam Tool Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed for contactless measurement of the electrical response of the DFI instruments and suitable product layout structures. As part of the system offering, we generally provide tool support services to customers to operate this tool. The third generation tool includes advances in accuracy and sensitivity and, in addition to enabling DFI on-chip instruments to be used for inline control for leading-edge semiconductor process nodes, is designed to enable customers to see defects in product wafers inline within acceptable queue time and much higher throughput. Characterization Vehicle System (also branded as our CV System). Our CV system is a combination of CV test chips, hardware to test such products, software to analyze the test results, and related services. This system is designed to accelerate the efficiency of yield learning by shortening the learning cycle, learning more per cycle, and reducing the number of silicon wafers required in manufacturing processes. This system includes physical IP in the form of test structures and DOEs that are tuned to our customers product and/or process specifics, tester hardware, data analysis, and training. The primary software and hardware products included in the CV system are as follows: CV Test Chips Our proprietary test chips are designed by our professional engineers using our proprietary Fire software. These test chips are run through a customers manufacturing process, with intentional process modifications, to provide unique, differentiated data to explore the effects of potential process improvements given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customers process. Types of CV test chips include: Our full-reticle and shared-reticle CV test chips are designed to provide a fast-learning cycle and are fully integrated with third-party failure analysis and inspection tools for a complete diagnosis to 8 Table of Contents understand root causes. Our full-reticle CV test chips use a shortened process flow to provide a faster learning cycle for specific process modules. Our Scribe CV test chips are inserted directly on customers product wafers to collect data about critical layers. Our DirectProbe CV test chips are designed to enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs by allowing our customers to measure components of actual product layout and identify yield issues. pdFasTest Electrical Tester Our proprietary electrical test hardware is optimized to quickly test our CV test chips, enabling fast defect and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. As part of the system offering, we provide test programs for each CV test chip that are tuned to the customers process. This automated system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical measurements to test our CV test chips. We provide services to analyze the unique, differentiated data output of this tester using the Exensio Characterization software to provide actionable insights to our customers. Exensio Characterization software This module, which is designed to integrate seamlessly with the rest of the Exensio software, collects the data generated from our CV test products, generating models of the performance effects of process variations on these design building blocks. As part of the system offering, we also offer analysis services, if the customer elects not to do such analysis itself. Cimetrix Software Products. Our Cimetrix software products enable equipment manufacturers in the semiconductor and electronics industries to provide standard interfaces on their products for efficient equipment communication, control, and data collection. Numerous industry standards have been established for equipment connectivity and control, including the SEMI (Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International) defined SECS (SEMI Equipment Communication Standard), GEM (Generic Equipment Model), GEM300, and EDA (equipment data acquisition) standards. Our Cimetrix products are designed to fully support these industry standards to enable equipment manufacturers to implement robust, turnkey support for these connectivity and control standards without needing to invest engineering resources to develop their own interfaces to these standards. Factories that purchase manufacturing equipment enabled with Cimetrix-supported interfaces, benefit from consistent and robust implementations of industry standards, enabling faster and more efficient implementation of smart manufacturing initiatives that depend on the collection and analysis of manufacturing and product data. Cimetrix products are sold via perpetual licenses and typically sold as part of a software development kit (SDK) that helps equipment manufacturers implement them quickly. We charge a one-time fee per equipment product type for the SDK license and a one-time fee for each piece of equipment shipped that includes the Cimetrix runtime license. Equipment Factory Connectivity Our products for equipment factory connectivity primarily include the following: Cimetrix CIMConnect is a SEMI SECS/GEM interface to the factory host for automated control and data collection. The Cimetrix CIMConnect module supports multiple-host interfaces simultaneously, which allows customers to support legacy, custom, and GEM interfaces. Cimetrix CIMConnect is used in semiconductor wafer fabrication, semiconductor back-end (test, assembly, and packaging), PV, HB-LED, disk drive, flat panel displays, printed circuit boards and other electronics manufacturing. In addition to enabling the implementation of the SEMI SECS/GEM standards E4, E5, E30, E37, E172, and E173, Cimetrix CIMConnect also supports SEMI PV2 (PVECI), A3 (PCBECI), and HB4 (HB-LED ECI) standards. Cimetrix CIM300 is a GEM interface for 300mm equipment using SEMI standards, including E39, E40, E87, E90, E94, E116, E148, and E157. These SEMI standards allow for the full automation required in manufacturing 300mm wafers. Cimetrix CIM300 manages the interdependencies between the standards and simplifies complex scenarios for easy implementation of the standards. These GEM300 standards are required for full automation in manufacturing of 300mm wafers. Cimetrix 9 Table of Contents CIM300 works with Cimetrix CIMConnect to implement the GEM300 and the original GEM suite of standards. Cimetrix CIMPortal Plus is an interface for EDA, also known as Interface A. The EDA standards are E120, E125, E132, E134, E138, E147, and E164. Cimetrix CIMPortal Plus implements the EDA standards in a flexible architecture that collects data from multiple sources and routes the data to multiple clients simultaneously. Factories can use the data gathered through EDA interfaces for FDC, run-to-run advanced process control, equipment health monitoring, chamber/tool matching, predictive maintenance, virtual metrology, diagnostics, and many other equipment-related analytical applications. Equipment Factory Connectivity Testing We provide the following products for testing the interfaces developed using our equipment factory connectivity products: Cimetrix EquipmentTest, for testing and validating compliance with the GEM and GEM300 standards, Cimetrix EDATester, for testing and validating compliance with the EDA/Interface A standards, and performance testing of the interface, and Cimetrix ECCE Plus for quick testing of the EDA/Interface A interface. Equipment Control Our equipment control product is the Cimetrix CIMControlFramework (Cimetrix CCF) software, which includes components for supervisory control, material handling, operator interface, platform control, and factory automation requirements, to allow equipment manufacturers to meet the requirements of fabrication facilities. Developers can leverage framework components through configuration and extension or customize the framework when unique requirements exist. Cimetrix CCF is designed to allow data generated at any point on the equipment to be quickly and easily accessed by other modules or external applications. Cimetrix CIMConnect, Cimetrix CIM300, and Cimetrix CIMPortal Plus are integrated with Cimetrix CCF to support the SEMI GEM, GEM300, and EDA/Interface A standards. Services Our services are almost always sold together with, or to support, our products and include the following: Software-as-a-Service We provide services to make our Exensio software available to our customers via the Internet, generally hosted by third-party providers. SaaS is considered part of cloud computing since the software is hosted on the Internet, or the cloud. Since our SaaS applications are accessed from a remote server rather than installed on individual machines, it is easier to maintain. For example, when the remote software is updated, the customers interface is also updated for all users. Cloud computing is designed to eliminate incompatibilities between different software versions and allow us to make incremental updates without requiring software downloads. Additionally, our customers can save data to a central online location, which is designed to allow increased project collaboration. As part of these services, we also typically provide hosted management services for the software and the customers data stored in our cloud. These services include environment set-up and configuration, system health monitoring, data integration maintenance, integration monitoring, system updates, security, and data upload/download, and license administration. Software Related Services We provide software maintenance and support (M&S), data management services, various value-added services (VAS) to install, configure, or create analysis templates, and other professional services to achieve customers specific outcomes using our software. We call this last type of services our solutions offering and, in these cases, we tailor the use of one or more Exensio products to achieve a desired result. For example, our AIM YieldAware FDC solution offering is designed to identify the process control variables that have the greatest impact on product yield through professional services that analyze the data from both Exensio Process Control and elements of Exensio Manufacturing Analytics and make recommendations for the customer to implement. VAS are provided by our professional service personnel with expertise that enhances and complements the engineering teams at our customers. For example, VAS includes our data cleaning and monitoring services. One requirement of big data analytics is to have clean, harmonized data to analyze. This service offering outsources the data wrangling and management effort to free the customer to focus their efforts on analysis, which has a greater ROI to the company than data management. Characterization Services These services are designed to characterize key product and/or process elements, primarily into CV test structures or DFI on-chip measurement instruments, and typically do not include performance 10 Table of Contents incentives based on the customers yield achievement. We provide these services, typically together with all elements of our CV system, to foundry customers in connection with new process technology development and/or yield ramp. In Characterization engagements, we generally provide the analysis of our CV test chips and provide summary findings and recommendations to the customer. Characterization engagements can include DFI systems. Customers Our existing customers include foundries, IDMs, fabless semiconductor design companies, OSATs, equipment manufacturers, EMS, and ODMs, including those that embed and distribute our Assembly Operations modules in their equipment. Our semiconductor customers targeted product segments vary significantly, including microprocessors, memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our solutions to the broader semiconductor market. We often have multiple contracts with a single customer or customer group, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. One customer accounted for 35% of our revenues for 2023, two customers accounted for 41% of our revenues for 2022 and two customers accounted for 27% of our revenues for 2021. No other customers accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Also, two customers accounted for 50% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2023, and three customers accounted for 53% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2022. We generally do not require collateral or other security to support accounts receivable. See the discussion in Risk Factors under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. International revenues accounted for approximately 44%, 50% and 55% of our total revenues for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed or where the customer is located. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers work sites for the last three fiscal years can be found in Note 11, Customer and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, Risk Factors. See our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II,