Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, projected, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; the impact of inflation, expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; the continuing impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) on the semiconductor industry and our business and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2022. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Cimetrix, CV, DFI, Exensio, PDF Solutions, the PDF Solutions logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries. Overview We provide comprehensive data solutions designed to empower organizations across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield and quality of their products and operational efficiency for increased profitability. Our offerings include proprietary software, professional services based on proven methodologies and using third-party cloud-hosting platforms for software-as-a-service (SaaS), electrical measurement hardware tools, and physical intellectual property (IP) for integrated circuit (IC) designs. We derive revenues from two sources, Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp, by monetizing our offerings through contract fees for on-premise licenses, SaaS, and other professional services and a value-based, variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare, on some Characterization services engagements. Our products and services have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, equipment manufacturers, electronics manufacturing suppliers (EMS), original device manufacturers (ODMs), out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSATs), and system houses. We are headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Industry Trends The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected how we and our customers operate our businesses. For example, most U.S. states and countries worldwide imposed in 2020, and may continue to impose from time-to-time for the foreseeable future, restrictions on the physical movement of people to limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders. We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 situation and expect to ask employees to return to working in offices according to local restrictions, in each case, with a focus on our employees safety. In addition, our personnel worldwide continue to be subject to various country-to-country travel restrictions, which limits the ability of some employees to travel to other offices or customer sites. We believe the lack of an ability to meet in person during most of 2021 and to some degree the first quarter of 2022 made it harder for us to sell complex or new technologies to some customers during these periods. Once we can again begin to meet with these customers in person, we believe we may improve traction with them. To date, we have been able to provide uninterrupted access to our products and services due to our globally distributed 25 Table of Contents workforce, many of whom were working remotely prior to the pandemic, and our pre-existing infrastructure, which supports secure access to our internal systems. The total duration and full extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the ultimate severity and transmission rate of the virus and variants, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and vaccinations, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners, and suppliers. To date, one effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is a global shortage in semiconductors due primarily to supply chain disruptions and many companies, including in the automotive industry, have announced shortages in production. Although this shortage has not materially affected our business, this trend may affect our future business opportunities, particularly future Gainshare and Cimetrix run-time licenses, if our customers production volumes decrease. Certain other trends may affect our Analytics revenue specifically. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by the user) is driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the organization of IT networks and computing at semiconductor and electronics companies across the ecosystem. First, the ubiquity of wireless connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has continually decreased year to year. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. Further, semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, frequently resulting in greater demands on analytics programs. The combination of these latter two trends means that cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security, and data protection are increasingly in demand for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these trends will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in adopting Industry 4.0 and secure cloud computing will create opportunities for our combination of advanced analytics capabilities, proven and established supporting infrastructure, and professional services to configure our products to meet customers specialized needs. Other trends may continue to affect our characterization services business and Integrated Yield Ramp revenue specifically. The logic foundry market at the leading-edge nodes, such as 10nm, 7nm, and smaller, underwent significant change over the past few years. The leading foundry continues to dominate market share as other foundries started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely continue to impact our characterization services business on these nodes. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 14nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and EUV lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business leveraging electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes and continue to engage foreign suppliers, subject to compliance with changing U.S. export restrictions. As a result of these market developments, we have chosen to focus our resources and investments in products, services, and solutions for analytics. There are other business trends that may affect our business opportunities generally. For instance, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high-performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs, and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices continue to fuel demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will continue to create a need for our products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. For further instance, the ongoing Russo-Ukrainian war is negatively impacting the global supply chain 26 Table of Contents generally, e.g., reducing the production of millions of new cars and trucks, which indirectly impacts the global semiconductor market, and also affecting global energy markets and causing shortages and rising prices of semiconductors directly. Ukraine and Russia are both top suppliers of neon gas that is used in lasers and chip manufacturing, and Russia is a major producer of palladium, a rare metal used in computer components, sensors, and fuel cells. Limitations on the supply of these two elements can severely affect the global supply chain, which is already scarce in semiconductors. Russia also supplies much of the worlds premium nickel, which is used by electronics manufacturers to make batteries. If these trends continue or worsen, we may face a shortage of critical components for our own tools and our business may suffer if the business of our customers decreases. Rising prices of semiconductors may mean increased royalties to us and increased Integrated Yield Ramp revenue. The U.S. government continues to expand and intensify export controls and sanctions, including the addition of many P.R.C. and Russian companies to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Entity List. These listings restrict supply to designees of items that are subject to the EAR. After an internal evaluation, we determined that a large percentage of our software products are not of U.S. origin and are, thus, not subject to the EAR. Our standard operations include development, distribution processes, software download sites, and professional service centers and processes located in various geographies around the world to better serve our customers. Some customers in the P.R.C., in particular, have nonetheless expressed concerns to us that continued action by the U.S. government could potentially interrupt their ability to make use of our products or services. The continuing tension between the U.S. and P.R.C. and/or Russian governments in trade and security matters or the perception of that tension could lead to disruptions or reductions in international trade, deter or prevent purchasing activity of customers, and negatively impact our China sales (with respect to U.S.-P.R.C. tensions) and financial results in general (with respect to global tensions). Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended March 31, 2022, are as follows: Total revenues were $33.5 million, an increase of $9.3 million, or 38%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Analytics revenue was $30.4 million, an increase of $11.0 million, or 57%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by increases in revenue from CV systems and DFI systems across multiple contracts and customers, and increases in revenues from Exensio and Cimetrix software licenses. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $1.7 million, or 36%, compared to the year-ago period primarily due to a decrease due to the end of Gainshare periods, partially offset by an increase in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Costs of revenues increased $0.9 million, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to increases in personnel-related costs, cloud-delivery costs, software royalty and licenses expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in facilities and information technology-related costs including depreciation expenses. Net loss was $4.2 million, compared to $7.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in net loss was primarily attributable to an increase in total revenues, partially offset by increases in costs of revenues and operating expenses related primarily to our research and development, sales and marketing activities, and general and administrative expenses, all of which were primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs due to higher compensation and benefit costs, and stock-based compensation expense, facilities and information technology-related costs, legal expenses, cloud-services related costs and an increase in income tax expense. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased $6.0 million to $134.2 million at March 31, 2022, from $140.2 million at December 31, 2021, primarily due to cash used to repurchase shares of common stock and payment for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, and purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options, proceeds from purchases under our employee stock purchase plans and cash provided by operating activities. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1, Basis of Presentation And Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2022, to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and intangible assets, and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue is derived from the following primary offerings: licenses and services for standalone Software (which consists primarily of Exensio and Cimetrix products), SaaS (which consists primarily of Exensio products), and DFI and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue from standalone software is recognized depending on whether the license is perpetual or time-based. Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the customers, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing (i) support and (ii) unspecified software updates on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based-licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time as follows. The license component is recognized at the time when control transfers to customers, with the post-contract support component recognized ratably over the committed term of the contract. For contracts with any combination of licenses, support, and other services, distinct performance obligations are accounted for separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using the standalone selling price (SSP) attributed to each performance obligation. Revenue from SaaS arrangements, which allow for the use of a cloud-based software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software, is accounted for as subscriptions and is recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the date the service is first made available to customers. 28 Table of Contents Revenue from DFI systems and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement is recognized primarily as services are performed. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs. For these contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP attributed to each performance obligation. Where there are not discrete performance obligations, historically, revenue is primarily recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. The estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgment. Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is derived from our yield ramp engagements that include Gainshare or other performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue under these projectbased contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time typically for a fixed fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs and allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP. Similar to the services provided in connection with DFI systems and CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgment. The Gainshare royalty contained in yield ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of our IP after the fixed-fee service period ends, based on the customers yield achievement. Revenue derived from Gainshare is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare royalty periods are generally subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We record Gainshare as a usage-based royalty derived from customers usage of intellectual property and record it in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes We are required to assess whether it is more-likely-than-not that we will realize our deferred tax assets. If we believe that they are not likely to be fully realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets, then to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, we determined a full valuation allowance was still appropriate for our U.S. federal and state net deferred tax assets (DTAs), primarily driven by a cumulative loss incurred over the 12-quarter period ended March 31, 2022, and the likelihood that we may not utilize tax attributes before they expire. The valuation allowance was approximately $51.6 million as of March 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021. We will continue to evaluate the need for a valuation allowance and may change our conclusion in a future period based on changes in facts (e.g., 12-quarter cumulative profit, significant new revenue, etc.). If we conclude that we are more likely than not to utilize some or all of our U.S. DTAs, we will release some or all of our valuation allowance and our tax provision will decrease in the period in which we make such determination. We evaluate our DTAs for realizability considering both positive and negative evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and any carryback availability. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. Changes in the net DTAs, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. Our income tax calculations are based on application of applicable U.S. federal, state, or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be 29 Table of Contents sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. At March 31, 2022, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings from our international subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, we have not provided for any foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of March 31, 2022. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are taxable in the U.S. in the year earned under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income rules implemented under 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Valuation of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We have one operating segment and one operating unit. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently, if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of excess, limited to the amount of total goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property, equipment, and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment. For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. There was no impairment of long-lived assets for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Discussion of Financial Data for the Three Months ended March 31, 2022 Revenues, Costs of Revenues, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Revenues: Analytics $ 30,426 $ 19,393 $ 11,033 57 % Integrated Yield Ramp 3,072 4,807 (1,735) (36) % Total revenues 33,498 24,200 9,298 38 % Costs of revenues 11,529 10,663 866 8 % Gross profit $ 21,969 $ 13,537 $ 8,432 62 % Gross margin 66 % 56 % Analytics revenue as a percentage of total revenues 91 % 80 % Integrated Yield Ramp revenue as a percentage of total revenues 9 % 20 % Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue increased $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by increases in revenue from CV systems and DFI systems across multiple contracts and customer, and increases in revenues from Exensio and Cimetrix software licenses. Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the prior year period, due to a decrease due to the end of Gainshare periods, partially offset by an increase in hours worked on fixed fees engagements. Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period primarily due to the contribution of Gainshare royalty, which is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new contracts containing Gainshare. Our Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp revenues may fluctuate in the future and are dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our products, services and solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues consist primarily of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Service costs include material, employee compensation and related benefits including stock-based compensation expense, subcontractor costs, overhead costs, travel and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with cloud-delivery related expenses and licensing third-party software used by us in providing services to our customers in solution engagements or sold in conjunction with our software products. The increase in costs of revenues of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, was primarily due to (i) a $0.6 million increase in cloud-delivery costs, software royalty, and 31 Table of Contents licenses expense, and (ii) a $0.4 million increase in personnel-related costs. These were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in facilities and information technology-related costs including depreciation expense. Gross Margin Gross margin increased 10% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, to 66%, compared to 56% for the year-ago period. The higher gross margin during three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to higher total revenue and decreases in certain costs of revenues, as discussed above, which decreased the costs of revenues as a percentage of total revenues, when compared to the year-ago period. Operating Expenses: Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Research and development $ 14,089 $ 10,841 $ 3,248 30 % As a percentage of total revenues 42 % 45 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs including compensation, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, outside development services, third-party cloud-services related cost, travel, and facilities cost allocations, to support product development activities. Research and development expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $2.7 million increase in personnel-related costs due to higher compensation and benefit costs, and stock-based compensation expense, (ii) a $0.3 million increase in subcontractor expenses primarily related to our DFI systems and Exensio and Cimetrix software, and (iii) a $0.3 million increase in facilities and information technology-related costs. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of the size and the timing of product development projects. Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 10,839 $ 9,464 $ 1,375 15 % As a percentage of total revenues 32 % 39 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications expenses, third-party cloud-services related costs, travel and facilities cost allocations. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $1.1 million increase in personnel-related costs due to higher compensation and benefit costs and stock-based compensation expense, (ii) a $0.2 million increase in general legal expenses, (iii) a $0.2 million increase in legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, and (iv) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-services related costs. These were partially offset by a (i) $0.4 million decrease in subcontractor expenses and (ii) a $0.1 million decrease in accounting related fees. 32 Table of Contents We anticipate our selling, general, and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 314 $ 314 $ % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combinations. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Interest and other expense (income), net $ (310) $ (441) $ 131 (30) % Interest and other expense (income), net, primarily consists of interest income, and foreign currency transaction exchange gains and losses. Interest and other expense (income), net decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to a lower foreign currency exchange gain resulting from a net favorable fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Income tax expense $ 1,187 $ 956 $ 231 24 % Income tax expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same year-ago period, primarily due to increases in foreign withholding taxes and changes in the geographic mix of worldwide income, which is subject to taxation at different statutory tax rates. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, tax legislations in the United States and in foreign countries where we are subject to tax jurisdictions, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, our ability to use tax attributes such as research and development tax credits and net operation losses, the tax effects of employee stock activity, audit examinations with adverse outcomes, changes in general accepted accounting principles and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $138.3 million, compared to $144.7 million as of December 31, 2021. Total cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments were $134.2 million as of March 31, 2022, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $140.2 million as of December 31, 2021. As of March 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $5.6 million and 33 Table of Contents $5.3 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, other obligations for at least the next twelve months. There has been no significant impact in respect to Liquidity and Capital Resources from the global COVID-19 pandemic. For risk discussion about the continuing impact of global COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or demand for our products, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors on Part I of our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. Repurchase of Companys Common Stock On June 4, 2020, the Companys Board of Directors adopted a stock repurchase program (the 2020 Program) to repurchase up to $25.0 million of the Companys common stock both on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, over the next two years. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, 218,858 shares were repurchased at an average price of $26.40 per share, for a total price of $5.8 million under the 2020 Program. Through April 10, 2022, approximately 470,000 shares had been repurchased at an average price of $21.91 per share, for a total price of $10.3 million under the 2020 Program. On April 11, 2022, the Board of Directors terminated that 2020 stock repurchase program, and adopted a new program (the 2022 Program) to repurchase up to $35.0 million of the Companys common stock both on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, over the next two years. On April 12, 2022, the Company repurchased approximately 715,000 shares of its common stock in a privately negotiated transaction for $16.7 million under the 2022 Stock Repurchase Program. The stock repurchase was made in a block trade in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Cash Flow Data The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,996 $ (8,325) $ 11,321 Investing activities 12,276 56,417 (44,141) Financing activities (6,990) (4,497) (2,493) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (167) (104) (63) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 8,115 $ 43,491 $ (35,376) Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022, consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible expense, amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts and net change in operating assets and liabilities. The $11.3 million increase in cash flows from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by a $6.0 million increase in net change from operating assets and liabilities, a $3.4 million decrease in net loss, and a $1.9 million increase in non-cash adjustments to net 34 Table of Contents loss, which was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $2.2 million, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation and amortization of $0.3 million. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, were as follows: Accounts receivable decreased by $2.3 million, primarily due to the collections from customers partially offset by an increase in sales and higher contractual invoicing activity during the first quarter of 2022; Prepaid expense and other current assets increased by $1.0 million, primarily due to the increase in deferred commission and prepaid expenses related to third party software licenses; Accounts payable decreased by $2.1 million primarily due to the timing of payments of vendor invoices; and Accrued compensation and related benefits decreased by $0.9 million primarily due to the timing of payments of accrued bonuses, accrued sales commissions and accrued payroll taxes, and exercised of purchase rights under employee stock purchase plans, partially offset by an increased in accrued vacation. Net Cash Flows Provided by Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities decreased by $44.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the year-ago period. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by investing activities primarily related to proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $32.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments of $21.0 million and property and equipment of $1.8 million primarily related to our DFI systems. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by investing activities primarily related to proceeds from maturities of short-term investments of $68.0 million, offset by purchases of short-term investments of $11.0 million and property and equipment of $0.6 million. Net Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the year-ago period. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $5.8 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and $3.4 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.2 million of proceeds from our employee stock purchase plans and exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $4.5 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock and $1.5 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $1.5 million of proceeds from our 2010 employee stock purchase plan and exercise of stock options. Related Party Transactions Refer to Note 3, Strategic Partnership Agreement with Advantest and Related Party Transactions , to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a discussion on related party transactions between the Company and Advantest. 35 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt.