Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic trends; the impact of inflation, expectations regarding recent and future acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual property and our solutions; the continuing impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) on the semiconductor industry and our business and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this Form 10-K, especially those contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The words may, anticipate, plan, continue, could, projected, expect, believe, intend, and assume, the negative of these terms and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and information included herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and based on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any such forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to fiscal year apply to our fiscal year that ends on December 31. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Business Overview We provide comprehensive data solutions designed to empower organizations across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield and quality of their products and operational efficiency for increased profitability. Our offerings include proprietary software, professional services based on proven methodologies and using third-party cloud-hosting platforms for software-as-a-service (SaaS), electrical measurement hardware tools, and physical intellectual property (IP) for integrated circuit (IC) designs. We derive revenues from two sources, Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp, by monetizing our offerings through contract fees for on-premise licenses, SaaS, and other professional services and a value-based, variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare, on our historical integrated yield ramp (IYR) engagements. Our products and services have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, equipment manufacturers, electronics manufacturing suppliers (EMS), original device manufacturers (ODMs), out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSATs), and system houses. We are headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Our products and services are used by many Fortune 500 companies across the semiconductor ecosystem to achieve smart manufacturing goals by connecting and controlling equipment, collecting data generated during manufacturing and test operations, and performing advanced analytics and machine learning to enable profitable, high-volume manufacturing. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Higher yields in less time can also mean less total raw materials and process runs, which help lower customers total cost and minimize environmental impact. Also, for example, equipment manufacturers and factories use our connectivity products to implement evolving industry standards for their equipment or operations, respectively, with required quality and stability. By way of further example, our IDM and fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning (or ML) and artificial intelligence (or AI) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time for designs to meet performance requirements with fewer iterations and faster time-to-market. For final example, our foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, and/or test. Our long-term business strategy is to be the data solutions provider of choice for the semiconductor and electronics ecosystems. To achieve this, we intend to: Offer a Common, Flexible Platform for a Broad Group of Customers Across the Supply Chain . As semiconductor and electronics products are made with the efforts of equipment manufacturers, front end foundries, chip and system designers, design automation, IP providers, and OSATs, there is a need to analyze the data across this whole chain to optimize yields, operational efficiencies, time to market, quality, and reliability. The Exensio platform is designed to provide a common platform - whether deployed in the cloud (SaaS) or on premise - to enable these different participants to analyze the relevant end-to-end data in near real-time, with data stores from 10s to 100s of terabytes (TBs) and flexible configurations for IDM, foundry, fabless, and OSAT specific needs. Our ML solutions combine professional services with the Exensio platform to further enable our customers to push their analytics to the edge of their global supply chains and shift the analysis and decision-making processes closer to where their data is being generated. We believe enabling edge analytics will further increase our customers ability to improve product yield, quality, performance, and profitability, and therefore, should drive the market for our products and services. Drive Tool-Level Software Installations to Create an Infrastructure of Connected Equipment and Enable Smart Factories . We believe that driving installation of our software products at the tool level will provide an infrastructure of connected equipment and help to enable smart factories. In July 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Advantest Corporation through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Advantest America, Inc., (which 4 Table of Contents we collectively refer to as Advantest) that includes the development of cloud-based applications for Advantest tools that leverage our Exensio software analytics. We believe this will allow us to increase the network of tools connected with PDF software and provide Advantest tool customers with increased data management and analytics. In December 2020, we acquired Cimetrix Incorporated (or Cimetrix) and began providing software products based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories. We believe that in the smart manufacturing era, the industry will demand the increased equipment connectivity and control our products and solutions offer. Further, we believe that the benefits from integration between analytics on equipment, the factory, and in the cloud will provide synergies with our existing end-to-end analytics offerings. Create Differentiated Data Sources for Better Analytics . Historically, companies have only used data that was generated from their manufacturing and test process to drive improvements. We offer unique IP (such as Characterization Vehicle (CV ) test chips) that is not part of an ICs functionality, but significantly improves the manufacturing process by improving yield learning and reducing time to market. Also, our Design-for-Inspection (DFI) system provides on-chip instrumentation and measurement applications from 28 nanometer (nm) down to 7nm and smaller - designed to identify blockers that impact product yield and quality months earlier than any other hardware- or software-based methodology. We believe that in the More-than-Moore (MtM) era, the differentiated data we provide can play an important role in enabling our customers to bring new products to market faster and with higher quality and performance, and, ultimately, more profitability. Brief History PDF Solutions was incorporated in Pennsylvania in November 1992, and we reincorporated in California in November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market as PDFS. We do not have any multi-class voting stock or any non-voting stock. From 2000 through 2009, we expanded our technology footprint and our operations in various countries through acquisitions. From 2009 to 2019, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare royalties. In 2013, we leveraged our extensive experience in yield simulation software and CV test chip development and started research and development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical characterization and process control for wafer inspection. The first-generation e-beam tool for DFI was completed in 2015, and the second generation was commercially deployed in 2019. In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-integrated data analytics Exensio platform, which resulted in accelerated growth in software through 2019. In December 2020, we completed the acquisition of Cimetrix and began providing software products based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories. Industry Background Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price and demand started to decrease near the end of the products life cycle. Today there are many different business models across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards fast-moving market segments like Internet of Things (or IoT) which utilize mature process nodes and requires a fast ramp to volume with a relatively short life cycle , and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending on the level of design complexity and the maturity of the process node used for product implementation. Processors, memory and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) continue to leverage the most advanced process nodes and experience significant challenges to achieve competitive initial yields and optimized performance. Some products and market segments, however, are content to utilize older process nodes. Regardless of the process node used for implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated, among other things, on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield 5 Table of Contents reclamation, product quality, and test efficiency, throughout a products life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. Technology and Intellectual Property Protection Our success is largely dependent upon our proprietary software. We believe the creative skills and technological ability of our personnel, product enhancements, and new product development are necessary to maintaining our position as a leading provider. We rely primarily on trade secret rights, copyright and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual agreements to protect our technology. We seek to protect our IP under patent laws and as of December 31, 2021, we held 185 U.S. patents. Our issued patents have expiration dates from 2022 through 2039. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. We also employ protection of our trademarks, with registration of marks, including Characterization Vehicle, Cimetrix, CV, eProbe, Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, and the PDF Solutions and Cimetrix logos. We have common law rights to additional trademarks, including ALPS, DFI, DirectProbe, DirectScan, FIRE, and VarScan. We also enter into confidentiality and inventions assignment agreements with our employees and confidentiality and license agreements with our customers and the various parties we partner with to resell, distribute, and, in some cases, integrate our products. Further, we limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Third parties could in any case develop competing technologies that include similar functionality or features, or otherwise are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries where we operate. Our business could suffer significantly if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, through yield, performance, and reliability improvement services over more than 20 years, we have accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and CV systems, our engineers create designs of experiments (or DOEs) and layouts for targeted fail modes. We have also developed electrical measurement hardware tools and proprietary extraction, design, and analysis software. In addition, our technology embodies many production-proven and patented algorithms. Further, our IP includes proven methodologies that our implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers use of our technology. We strive to continually enhance our core technologies through the codification of knowledge that we gain in the use of our products and delivery of services. Products and Services Products Our primary software products and software and hardware systems include the following: Exensio Platform . Our separately-offered Exensio software products address the big data manufacturing challenge of todays advanced process nodes and highly integrated products, by providing a common environment throughout the supply chain for different data types, including inline and end-of-line metrology, yield, parametric, performance, manufacturing consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. Exensio products are designed to enable real-time rapid diagnosis and understanding of key manufacturing and test metrics during both inline and end-of-line wafer processing, helping customers reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. By integrating silos of data and applying AI and ML, Exensio products resolve the limitation of local optimization and provide better foresight across the entire production process, reducing the time it takes to make critical decisions that can drive higher product yield, quality and reliability. Exensio products are available as either an on-premise license or SaaS and are offered in four main, separately-offered Exensio products targeting the needs of the customers business model: Exensio IDM, Exensio Fabless, Exensio Foundry, and Exensio OSAT. Each of these products are comprised of two or more modules to provide specific capabilities to address a particular type of companys needs and requirements; however, there are common features, functionality, and purpose across some of the key modules as follows: Manufacturing Analytics (formerly Exensio Yield) This module uses our proprietary database schema to store collected data in a common environment with a consistent view. For example, product engineers use it to identify and analyze production yield, performance, reliability and other issues. Elements of this module are designed to 6 Table of Contents handle very large and complex data sets that are commonplace in the semiconductor industry. To support the multi-dimensional product requirements of our customers, the powerful, interactive visualization and analysis capabilities in this product are highly flexible and user-configurable. Process Control (formerly Exensio Control) This module provides failure detection and classification (or FDC) capabilities for monitoring, alarming, and control of manufacturing tool sets. These capabilities include proprietary data collection and analysis of tool sensor trace data and summary indicators designed to rapidly identify sources of process variations and manufacturing excursions. When used together with Manufacturing Analytics and related modules, the accretive data mining and correlation capabilities are designed to enable identification of tool level sources of yield loss and process variation and enable predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, process adjustments, PM scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer level and final test to impact end of line product yield, performance, and reliability. Test Operations (formerly Exensio Test) This module provides comprehensive data collection and analysis capabilities for data generated during manufacturing test operations designed to optimize test operations management overall, including improving test productivity, performing part average test, supporting test floor operations, and implementing adaptive test. Test Operations is also designed to provide predictive insights based on proprietary analytics during test, assembly and packaging to maximize the efficiency of test operations, productivity improvements and yield reclamation. Assembly Operations (formerly Exensio ALPS) This module provides the capability to link assembly and packaging data with other product lifecycle data, including fabrication and characterization data, across the product life cycle. Data sources could include manufacturing, wafer acceptance test, wafer sort, test and assembly, final test, and field use. The proprietary data linkage enabled by Assembly Operations is also designed to enable device manufacturers to maintain full traceability of their finished products back to the source wafer without the need for Electronic Chip IDs (or ECIDs). This capability is becoming an essential requirement for safety-critical market segments such as automotive and military-aerospace. Design-for-Inspection (or DFI) System. Our DFI System is designed to enable customers to achieve non-contact, inline electrical characterization and more effective process control. This system also enables electrical characterization of customers product chip layout structures, contactless measurement, and powerful data processing and analysis of relevant product patterns. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods. The DFI system leverages our production-proven design and analysis infrastructure. The primary software and hardware elements of the DFI system are as follows: DFI On-Chip Instruments Our on-chip measurement instruments are developed using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software and are tuned to capture key features of our customers product layouts. As part of the system offering, we generally provide design services to create these instruments. These DFI instruments are designed to be placed in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die, without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses eProbe Non-Contact E-Beam Tool Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed to measure the electrical response of the DFI instruments and suitable product layout structures. As part of the system offering, we generally provide tool support services to customers to operate this tool. The second generation tool includes orders of magnitude advances in throughput and accuracy that now enable DFI on-chip instruments to be used for inline control for leading-edge semiconductor process nodes. Exensio Characterization Software This software, which is also a part of our Exensio platform, is designed to analyze the billions of measurements collected using the eProbe tool. As part of the system offering, we generally provide analysis services to customers to perform this analysis and provide summary findings and recommendations. 7 Table of Contents Characterization Vehicle (CV) System. Our CV system is a combination of CV test chips, hardware to test such products, software to analyze the test results, and related services. This system is designed to accelerate the efficiency of yield learning by shortening the learning cycle, learning more per cycle, and reducing the number of silicon wafers required in manufacturing processes. This system includes physical IP in the form of test structures and DOEs that are tuned to our customers product and/or process specifics, tester hardware, data analysis, and training. The primary software and hardware products included in the CV system are as follows: CV Test Chips Our proprietary test chips are designed by our professional engineers using our proprietary FIRE layout analysis software. These test chips are run through a customers manufacturing process, with intentional process modifications, to provide unique, differentiated data to explore the effects of potential process improvements given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customers process. Types of CV test chips include: Our full-reticle and shared-reticle CV test chips are designed to provide a fast learning cycle and are fully integrated with third-party failure analysis and inspection tools for a complete diagnosis to understand root causes. Our full-reticle CV test chips use a shortened process flow to provide a faster learning cycle for specific process modules: Our Scribe CV test chip are inserted directly on customers product wafers to collect data about critical layers. Our DirectProbe CV test chips are designed to enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs by allowing our clients to measure components of actual product layout. Our VarScan CV test chips are designed for front-end or through-silicon via (or TSV) application with a focus on high resolution resistance variation analysis for mass production. pdFasTest Electrical Tester Our proprietary test hardware is optimized to quickly test our CV test chips, enabling fast defect and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. As part of the system offering, we provide test programs for each CV test chip that are tuned to the customers process. This automated system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical measurements to test our CV test chips. We provide services to analyze the unique, differentiated data output of this tester using the Exensio Characterization software to provide actionable insights to our customers. Exensio Characterization software This software, which is also a part of our Exensio platform, collects the data generated from our CV test products, generating models of the performance effects of process variations on these design building blocks. As part of the system offering, we also offer analysis services, if the customer elects not to do such analysis itself. Cimetrix Software Products. Our Cimetrix software products enable equipment manufacturers to provide industry standard interfaces on their products for efficient equipment communication, control, and collection of equipment data. There are numerous industry standards that have been established for equipment connectivity and control, including the SEMI defined SECS (SEMI Equipment Communication Standard), GEM (Generic Equipment Model), and PV2 (new photovoltaic equipment communication standard based on SECS/GEM) standards. By providing software products that fully support these industry standards, equipment manufacturers can implement robust, turnkey support for these connectivity and control standards without needing to invest engineering resources to develop their own interfaces to these standards. Factories that purchase manufacturing equipment enabled with Cimetrix-supported interfaces, benefit from consistent and robust implementations of industry standards, enabling faster and more efficient implementation of smart manufacturing initiatives that depend on the collection and analysis of manufacturing and product data. There are two separate Cimetrix product lines targeting the needs of factory equipment connectivity and control. The products are sold via perpetual licenses and runtime royalties. Equipment Factory Connectivity Our products for equipment connectivity primarily include the following: 8 Table of Contents CIMConnect is designed for general purpose equipment connectivity and enables production equipment in the semiconductor and electronics industries to communicate data to the factorys host computer through the SECS/GEM and PV2 standards. CIMConnect can also support other emerging communications standards for maximum flexibility. In addition, it supports multiple-host interfaces simultaneously, which allows customers to support legacy, custom, and GEM interfaces. CIMConnect is used in semiconductor wafer fabrication, semiconductor back-end (test, assembly, and packaging), PV, HB-LED, disk drive, flat panel displays, printed circuit boards and other electronics manufacturing. CIM300 is a software development kit (or SDK) used by manufacturers of 300mm semiconductor equipment that is designed to enable quick implementation of the required 300mm SEMI standards, including E39, E40, E87, E90, E94, E116, E148, and E157. These SEMI standards allow for the full automation required in manufacturing 300mm wafers. The CIM300 SDK includes CIMConnect, TESTConnect, and SECSConnect. CIMPortal Plus is an SDK for equipment manufacturers that allows for quick implementation of the Interface A, also known as EDA (Equipment Data Acquisition), and other SEMI standards, including E120, E125, E132, E134, E138, E147, and E164. Interface A specifies a new port on equipment that provides detailed structured data that can be used for advanced process control, e-diagnostics, and other equipment engineering service applications. These software applications are becoming critical to the fabs as shorter ramp times are required. Equipment Control Our primary equipment control product is the CIMControlFramework software, which is based on the latest Microsoft.NET technology. It is designed to enable equipment manufacturers to meet the supervisory control, material handling, platform and process control, and factory automation requirements of the fabrication facilities or fabs. Developers can leverage framework components through configuration and extension or customize when unique requirements exist. CIMControlFramework, unlike one-off solutions, is supported and maintained with upgrades, improvements, and performance enhancements. With a data-driven architecture at the core of the framework, data generated at any point on the equipment is designed to be quickly and easily accessed by any other module or external application. Services Our services are almost always sold together with, or to support, our products and include the following: Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) We provide services to make our Exensio software available to our customers via the Internet, generally hosted by third-party providers. SaaS is considered part of cloud computing since the software is hosted on the Internet, or the cloud. Since our SaaS applications are accessed from a remote server rather than installed on individual machines, it is easier to maintain. For example, when the remote software is updated, the customers interface is also updated for all users. Cloud computing is designed to eliminate incompatibilities between different software versions and allow us to make incremental updates without requiring software downloads. Additionally, our customers can save data to a central online location, which is designed to allow increased project collaboration. As part of these services, we also typically provide hosted management services for the licensed software and the customers data stored in our cloud. These services include environment set-up and configuration, system health monitoring, data integration maintenance, integration monitoring, system updates, security, and data upload/download, and license administration. Software Related Services We provide software maintenance and support (or M&S), data management services, various value-added services (or VAS) to install, configure, or create analysis templates, and other professional services to achieve customers specific outcomes using our software. We call this last type of services our solutions offering and, in these cases, we tailor the use of one or more Exensio products to achieve a desired result. For example, our AIM YieldAware FDC solution offering is designed to identify the process control variables that have the greatest impact on product yield through professional services that analyze the data from both Exensio Process Control and elements of Exensio Manufacturing Analytics and make recommendations for the customer to implement. VAS are provided by our professional service personnel with expertise that enhances and complements the engineering teams at our customers. For example, VAS includes our data cleaning and monitoring services. One requirement of big data analytics is to have clean, 9 Table of Contents harmonized data to analyze. This service offering outsources the data wrangling and management effort to free the customer to focus their efforts on analysis, which has a greater ROI to the company than data management. Characterization Services These services are designed to characterize key product and/or process elements, primarily into CV test structures or DFI on-chip measurement instruments, and typically do not include performance incentives based on the customers yield achievement. We provide these services, typically together with all of the elements of our CV system, to foundry customers in connection with new process technology development and/or yield ramp. In Characterization engagements, we generally provide the analysis of our CV test chips and provide summary findings and recommendations to the customer. Characterization engagements can include DFI systems. Customers Our existing customers include foundries, IDMs, fabless semiconductor design companies, OSATs, equipment manufacturers, EMS, and ODMs, including those that embed and distribute our Assembly Operations modules in their equipment. Our semiconductor customers targeted product segments vary significantly, including microprocessors, memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our solutions to the broader semiconductor market. We often have multiple contracts with a single customer or customer group, with no interdependent performance obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. Two customers accounted for 27% of our revenues for 2021, and one customer accounted for 23% of our revenues for 2020. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in 2021 and 2020. See the discussion in Risk Factors under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. International revenues accounted for approximately 55% and 58% of our total revenues for 2021 and 2020, respectively. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed or where the customer is located. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers work sites for our last two fiscal years can be found in Note 13, Customer and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, Risk Factors. See our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II,