Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, could, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, target or continue, the negative effect of terms like these or other similar expressions. Any statement concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies, prospects, or the time required of our executive management for, and expenses related to, as well as the success of the our strategic growth opportunities and partnerships, including our partnership with Advantest Corporation, possible actions taken by us or our subsidiaries, and the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, which may be provided by us are also forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of filing and we further caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1. Business and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2020. All references to we, us, our, PDF, PDF Solutions or the Company refer to PDF Solutions, Inc. Overview We offer products and services designed to empower engineers and data scientists across the semiconductor ecosystem to improve the yield, quality, and profitability of their products. We derive revenues from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Our offerings combine proprietary software, physical intellectual property (or IP) for Integrated Circuits (or IC) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. We primarily monetize our offerings through time-based license fees, contract revenue for professional services, and increasingly recently, software as a service (or SaaS). In some cases, especially on our historical integrated yield ramp (or IYR) engagements, we also receive a value-based royalty that we call Gainshare. Our products, services, and solutions have been sold to integrated device manufacturers (or IDMs), fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, out-sourced semiconductor assembly and test (or OSATs), and system houses. Industry Trend The global COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the operations and purchasing decisions of companies worldwide. While the full potential economic impact brought by the COVID-19 pandemic may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets and on June 8, 2020, the National Bureau of Economic Research announced that the U.S. was in a recession. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected how we and our customers are operating our business. For example, most U.S. states and countries worldwide have imposed and may continue to impose from time-to-time for the foreseeable future, restrictions on the physical movement of our employees, partners, and customers to limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions and shelter-in-place orders. As a result, our Shanghai office was temporarily shut down and the restrictions limited the ability of our local employees to travel to customer sites or visit our other offices from January to April 2020. Several other impacted locations were temporarily closed but our US R&D facility partially reopened in June 2020, and our offices in Canada, France, Korea and Japan have reopened on various dates during the second and third quarter of 2020. Our corporate headquarters in the United States partially reopened in the fourth quarter of 2020. We are closely monitoring the COVID-19 situation and currently preparing plans to reopen our other offices with focused on our employees safety. In addition, our personnel worldwide are subject to various country to country travel restrictions, which limit our ability to provide services to customers at their facilities. To date, we have been able to provide uninterrupted access to our products and services due to our globally distributed workforce, many of whom are already working remotely, and our pre-existing infrastructure, which supports secure access to our internal systems. If, however, the COVID-19 pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees productivity or our partners or customers decision to use our products and services, our ability to deliver on current commitments, to secure future bookings, or achieve expected financial performance may be harmed. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the virus, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and vendors. 30 Table of Contents Certain general business trends may affect our Analytics revenue. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by the user) is driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the organization of IT networks and computing at those same companies. First, the ubiquity of connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has continually decreased year to year. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. Semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, frequently resulting in greater demands on analytics programs. The combination of these two trends means that cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security and data protection are increasingly in demand for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these trends will continue for the next few years, and the challenges involved in adopting Industry 4.0 and secure cloud computing will create opportunities for companies that have a combination of advanced analytics capabilities, proven and established data infrastructures, and professional services to optimize their environment to customers specialized needs. Other business trends may continue to affect our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue. The logic foundry market at the leading-edge nodes, such as 10nm and 7nm has undergone significant change over the past few years. The leading foundry continues to increase market share as other foundries have either suspended 7nm development, forecasted a later start of mass production, or started later than originally forecast in some cases. This trend will likely continue to negatively impact our Integrated Yield Ramp business on these nodes. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 20nm, to extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers or restrictive economics. Foundries that participate at leading edge nodes are expected to continue to invest in new technologies such as memory, packaging, and multi-patterned and extreme ultraviolet lithography, as well as new innovations in process control and variability management. We expect Chinas investment in semiconductors to continue. In order for these trends to provide opportunities for us to increase our business in process control and electrical characterization, Chinese semiconductors manufacturers will need to increase their production volumes on advanced technology nodes and continue to engage foreign suppliers. As a result of these market developments, we have chosen to focus our resources and investments in products, services, and solutions for analytics. There are other general business trends that may affect our business opportunities. For instance, the demand for consumer electronics, communications devices, and high-performance computing continues to drive technological innovation in the semiconductor industry as the need for products with greater performance, lower power consumption, reduced costs and smaller size continues to grow with each new product generation. In addition, advances in computing systems and mobile devices have fueled demand for higher capacity memory chips. To meet these demands, IC manufacturers and designers are constantly challenged to improve the overall performance of their ICs by designing and manufacturing ICs with more embedded applications to create greater functionality while lowering power and cost per transistor. As this trend continues, companies will continually be challenged to improve process capabilities to optimally produce ICs with minimal random and systematic yield loss, which is driven by the lack of compatibility between the design and its respective manufacturing process. We believe that these difficulties will continue to create a need for all types of products and services that address yield loss across the IC product life cycle. Our Strategic Partnership with Advantest On July 29, 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Advantest Corporation through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Advantest America, Inc., (collectively, Advantest) that includes: (i) a significant agreement for our assistance in development of cloud-based applications for Advantest tools that leverage our Exensio software analytics platform; (ii) a commercial agreement providing for the license to third parties of solutions that result from the development work that combine Advantests testing applications and our Exensio platform; (iii) a 5-year cloud-based subscription for our Exensio analytics platform and related services; and (iv) the purchase of 3,306,924 shares of our common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $65.2 million. Concurrent with the share purchase, Advantest Corporation also entered into multi-year voting and lock-up agreements. 31 Table of Contents Financial Highlights Financial highlights for the three months ended September 30, 2020, were as follows: Total revenues were $23.1 million, an increase of $1.2 million, or 5%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. Analytics revenue was $14.3 million, which was an increase of $1.7 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by a $2.1 million increase in Exensio licenses and Characterization Vehicle (CV) services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in Design-for-Inspection (DFI) revenue. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to decrease in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes. Costs of revenues increased $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to (i) a $1.0 million increase in personnel-related costs, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs, and (iii) a $0.1 million increase in subcontractor expenses, partially offset by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in direct costs due mainly to hardware expense, shipping costs and the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Gross margin was 59%, compared to 60% for the three months ended September 30, 2019. Net loss was $2.7 million, compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to (i) a $0.8 million increase in costs of revenues, (ii) a $2.3 million increase in operating expenses due primarily to our sales and marketing activities, and an increase in general and administrative expenses related to subcontractor costs, legal fees, and accounting and related fees, and (iii) $0.6 million increase in interest and other expense (income), net, partially offset by a $1.2 million increase in revenues, and a $0.4 million increase in income tax benefit. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $70.8 million to $168.4 million at September 30, 2020, from $97.6 million at December 31, 2019, primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of our common stock in connection with our strategic partnership with Advantest, partially offset by cash used in investing activities primarily related to additions to property and equipment for our DFI solution, including investments in constructing eProbe tools. Financial highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, were as follows: Total revenues were $65.7 million, which was an increase of $2.7 million, or 4%, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Analytics revenue was $42.8 million, which was an increase of $6.7 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by an $8.4 million increase in Exensio licenses and CV services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019 and a $1.7 million decrease in DFI revenue. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $4.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.1 million decrease in revenue from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and a $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment recognized in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm technology node. Costs of revenues increased $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to (i) a $2.3 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, (ii) a $0.8 million increase in direct costs related to third-party software royalty and licenses expense, equipment and hardware expense, and the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (iii) a $0.6 million increase in personnel-related costs, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. 32 Table of Contents Gross margin was 59%, compared to 61% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Net loss was $6.9 million, compared to $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in net loss was primarily attributable to (i) a $2.5 million increase in costs of revenues, (ii) a $4.8 million increase in operating expenses as we continued to make investments in research and development, sales and marketing activities, and due to an increase in general and administrative expenses related to subcontractor expenses, legal fees, and accounting and related fees, and (iii) a $0.8 million increase in interest and other expense (income), net, partially offset by a $2.7 million increase in revenues, and a $2.7 million increase in income tax benefit. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, and to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the third quarter of 2020, we added an accounting policy disclosure for our short-term investments in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Other than the aforementioned additional disclosure, there were no material changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. The following is a brief discussion of the more significant accounting policies and methods that we use. General Our discussion and analysis of our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and intangible assets, and the realization of deferred tax assets. Actual amounts may differ from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue is derived from the following primary offerings: licenses and services for Exensio Software, Exensio SaaS, DFI and CV systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue from standalone Exensio Software is recognized depending on whether the license is perpetual or time-based. Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control transfers to the customers, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, because we are providing (i) support and (ii) unspecified software updates on a when-and-if available basis over the contract term. Revenue from time-based-licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time as follows. The license component is recognized at the time when control transfers to customers, with the post-contract support component recognized ratably over the committed term of the contract. For contracts with any combination of licenses, support, and other services, distinct performance obligations are accounted for separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using standalone selling price (or SSP) attributed to each performance obligation. 33 Table of Contents Revenue from Exensio SaaS arrangements, which allow for the use of a cloud-based software product or service over a contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software, is accounted for as subscriptions and is recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the date the service is first made available to customers. Revenue from DFI and CV systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement is recognized primarily as services are performed. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs. For these contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP attributed to each performance obligation. Where there are not discrete performance obligations, historically, revenue is primarily recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. The estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgement. Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is derived from our yield ramp engagements, which include Gainshare or other performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. Revenue under these projectbased contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time typically for a fixed fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs and allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP. Similar to the services provided in connection with DFI and CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgement. The Gainshare royalty contained in yield ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of our IP after the fixed-fee service period ends, based on the customers yield achievement. Revenue derived from Gainshare is contingent upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare royalty periods are generally subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We record Gainshare as a usage-based royalty derived from customers usage of intellectual property and record it in the same period in which the usage occurs. Income Taxes We are required to assess whether it is more-likely-than-not that we will realize our deferred tax assets. If we believe that they are not likely to be fully realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets, then to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance was approximately $11.2 million and $10.5 million as of September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019 respectively, which was related to California R&D tax credits and California net operating losses (NOLs) related to an acquisition that we currently do not believe to be more-likely-than-not to be ultimately realized. If we conclude at a future financial reporting period that there has been a change in our ability to realize our California R&D credit and net operating loss carry forward deferred tax assets, and it is at such time more-likely-than-not that we will realize the tax credits before applicable expiration dates, our tax provision will decrease in the period in which we make such determination. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability considering both positive and negative evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and any carryback availability. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. Changes in the net deferred tax assets, less offsetting valuation allowance, in a period are recorded through the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. 34 Table of Contents Our income tax calculations are based on application of applicable U.S. federal, state, or foreign tax law. Our tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. At September 30, 2020, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings from our international subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, we have not provided for any foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of September 30, 2020. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are taxable in the U.S. in the year earned under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income rules implemented under 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was enacted. The CARES Act includes, among other things, refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of some employer FICA taxes, allowance of net operating loss carrybacks for up to five years, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, and technical amendments regarding the income tax depreciation of qualified improvement property placed in service after December 31, 2017. The removal of certain limitations on the utilization of NOLs resulted in our recognition of an income tax benefit of $2.2 million from the carryback of federal NOLs during the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Valuation of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill and Intangible Assets We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. We have one operating segment and one operating unit. We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently, if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of excess, limited to the amount of total goodwill. There was no goodwill impairment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, consist of property and equipment and intangible assets. We periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment . For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. There was no impairment of long-lived assets for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and accounting changes, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Income Statement Presentation In the fourth quarter of 2019, in order to enhance the transparency of our revenue reporting, we updated our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss to change our historical presentation of revenue categories. Previously, we presented revenue on two lines: Solutions and Gainshare performance incentives. Included within Solutions, was revenue from software and related revenue, SaaS solutions, DFI licenses, and fixed-price project-based solution implementation services. The previous Gainshare performance incentive category included only revenue from performance incentive programs. We now present revenue in the following categories: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue is comprised of all revenue from our Integrated Yield Ramp services engagements that include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement, i.e. both fixed-fees and Gainshare royalty from such engagements. Analytics comprises all other revenue, including from our licenses and services for Exensio Software, Exensio SaaS, DFI and CV systems that do not include performance incentives based on customers yield achievement. 35 Table of Contents The change in presentation of revenue does not change our net revenues or total cost of net revenues. The following table shows reclassified amounts to conform to the current periods presentation (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Change in Change in Previously Presentation Current Previously Presentation Current Reported Reclassification Presentation Reported Reclassification Presentation Revenues: Solutions $ 16,208 $ (16,208 ) N/A $ 46,298 $ (46,298 ) N/A Gainshare performance incentives 5,706 (5,706 ) N/A 16,725 (16,725 ) N/A Analytics N/A 12,691 $ 12,691 N/A 36,099 $ 36,099 Integrated Yield Ramp N/A 9,223 9,223 N/A 26,924 26,924 Total revenues $ 21,914 $ $ 21,914 $ 63,023 $ $ 63,023 Since certain costs of revenues are attributed to both Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp revenue categories, we believe it is more appropriate and meaningful to present the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss under a one-step presentation format that excludes any measure of gross margin. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we elected to change our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss presentation from a two-step presentation, where total costs of revenues was deducted from total revenues to report a gross profit line, to a one-step presentation, where total costs and expenses are deducted from total revenues. The change in presentation does not change previously presented amounts for costs of revenues, operating expenses and other expenses (income), or loss before income taxes. Discussion of Financial Data for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30 , 2020 and 2019 Revenues, Costs of Revenues, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (Dollars in thousands) Revenues: Analytics $ 14,346 $ 12,691 $ 1,655 13 % $ 42,766 $ 36,099 $ 6,667 18 % Integrated Yield Ramp 8,766 9,223 (457 ) (5 )% 22,912 26,924 (4,012 ) (15 )% Total revenues $ 23,112 $ 21,914 $ 1,198 5 % $ 65,678 $ 63,023 $ 2,655 4 % Costs of revenues 9,493 8,715 778 9 % 26,926 24,415 2,511 10 % Gross profit $ 13,619 $ 13,199 $ 420 3 % $ 38,752 $ 38,608 $ 144 0 % Gross margin 59 % 60 % 59 % 61 % Analytics revenue as a percentage of total revenues 62 % 58 % 65 % 57 % Integrated Yield Ramp revenue as a percentage of total revenues 38 % 42 % 35 % 43 % Analytics Revenue Analytics revenue increased $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by a $2.1 million increase in Exensio licenses and CV services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in DFI revenue. Analytics revenue increased $6.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in Analytics revenue was primarily driven by an $8.4 million increase in Exensio licenses and CV services due to higher hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, partially offset by the expiration of an Exensio contract for a customer that ceased 7nm production in 2019 and a $1.7 million decrease in DFI revenue. 36 Table of Contents Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to decrease in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm and 28nm technology nodes. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $4.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, due primarily to a $1.1 million decrease in revenue from lower hours worked across multiple contracts and customers, and a $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment recognized in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in Gainshare royalty from the 14nm technology node. Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period primarily due to the contribution of Gainshare royalty, which is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our customers, and our ability to enter into new contracts containing Gainshare. Our revenues may fluctuate in the future and are dependent on a number of factors, including the semiconductor industrys continued acceptance of our products, services and solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations by existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, and further penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. Costs of Revenues Costs of revenues consist of costs incurred to provide and support our services, costs recognized in connection with licensing our software, and amortization of acquired technology. Services costs consist of material, employee compensation and related benefits, overhead costs, travel and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with licensing third-party software used by us in providing services to our customers in solution engagements, or sold in conjunction with our software products. The increase in costs of revenues of $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, was primarily due to (i) a $1.0 million increase in labor or personnel-related costs, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs, and (iii) a $0.1 million increase in subcontractor expenses, partially offset by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in direct costs due mainly to to hardware expense, shipping costs and the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (ii) a $0.5 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. The increase in costs of revenues of $2.5 million the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2019, was primarily due to (i) a $2.3 million increase in cloud-delivery related costs and depreciation expense of test equipment, (ii) a $0.8 million increase in direct costs related to third-party software royalty and licenses expense, equipment and hardware expense, and the timing of deferral of contract costs, and (iii) a $0.6 million increase in personnel-related costs, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was 59% compared to 60% for the year-ago period. Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was 59% compared to 61% for the year-ago period, or a decrease of 2%. The higher gross margin during nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to $3.3 million in nonrecurring revenue from a customer contract amendment. 37 Table of Contents Operating Expenses: Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Research and development $ 8,328 $ 8,435 $ (107 ) (1 )% $ 24,672 $ 23,993 $ 679 3 % As a percentage of total revenues 36 % 38 % 38 % 38 % Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs to support product development activities, including compensation and benefits, outside development services, travel, facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Research and development expenses decreased for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.1 million decrease in personnel-related costs, and (ii) a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions. Research and development expenses increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $0.4 million increase in subcontractor expenses that is primarily related to our DFI and Exensio solutions, (ii) a $0.4 million increase in depreciation expense, and (iii) a $0.3 million increase in software licenses and maintenance expense, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in travel expenses resulting from reduced business travel due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period due to the timing of product development projects. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Selling, general and administrative $ 8,420 $ 5,990 $ 2,430 41 % $ 24,052 $ 19,940 $ 4,112 21 % As a percentage of total revenues 36 % 27 % 37 % 32 % Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefits for sales, marketing and general and administrative personnel, legal and accounting services, marketing communications, travel and facilities cost allocations, and stock-based compensation charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $1.0 million increase in legal fees, primarily related to fees for legal services, including the Advantest partnership, and for the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, (ii) a $0.7 million increase in personnel-related costs, (iii) a $0.5 million increase in subcontractor expenses, (iv) a $0.3 million increase in accounting and related fees, and (v) a $0.2 million increase in cloud-services related costs, partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in travel expenses. 38 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to (i) a $1.2 million increase in subcontractor expenses, (ii) a $1.8 million increase in fees for legal services, including the Advantest partnership, and for the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, (iii) a $0.9 million increase in personnel-related costs, (iv) a $0.2 million increase in accounting and related fees, (v) a $0.4 million increase in cloud-services related costs, and (vi) a $0.2 million increase from a write-down of equipment, partially offset by (i) a $0.4 million decrease in travel expenses, and (ii) a $0.1 million decrease in depreciation expenses. We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a result of cost control initiatives and to support our selling efforts in the future. Amortization of Other Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets $ 174 $ 174 $ % $ 521 $ 436 $ 85 19 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of certain business combination. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Interest and other expense (income), net $ 361 $ (202 ) $ 563 279 % $ 530 $ (307 ) $ 837 273 % Interest and other expense (income), net, primarily consists of interest income, gains and losses from foreign currency forward contracts, and foreign currency transaction exchange gains and losses. Interest and other expense (income), net increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago periods, primarily due to a decrease in interest income due to lower interest rates, and a higher net unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a decrease in loss related to foreign currency forward contracts, and an increase in other income. Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % Income tax benefit $ (930 ) $ (511 ) $ (419 ) 82 % $ (4,109 ) $ (1,458 ) $ (2,651 ) 182 % Income tax benefit increased for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to the results of changes in the excess tax benefit from employee stock compensation expense and the tax benefit from forecasted operating losses. Income tax benefit increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to favorable increase in excess tax benefits related to employee stock compensation expense and as a result of the provisions of the CARES Act. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we recorded an income tax benefit of $2.2 million from the carryback of federal NOLs pursuant to the provisions of the CARES Act. 39 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2020, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $185.2 million, compared to $119.6 million as of December 31, 2019. Total cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments were $168.4 million as of September 30, 2020, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $97.6 million as of December 31, 2019. As of September 30, 2020, and December 31, 2019, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $2.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations for at least the next twelve months. There has been no significant impact in respect to Liquidity and Capital Resources from the global COVID-19 pandemic. For risk discussion about the potential impact of global COVID-19 pandemic on our operations or demand for our products, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors on Part II of this Report. Private Placement On July 29, 2020, we entered into a strategic partnership with Advantest, which includes, among others, a Securities Purchase Agreement wherein we issued and sold to Advantest America, Inc., an aggregate of 3,306,924 shares of our common stock, at a purchase price of $19.7085 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $65.2 million on July 30, 2020. All of the shares were offered and sold by us pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act 1933, as amended, provided by Section 4(a)(2) as a transaction with an accredited investor not involving a public offering. The increase in the combined balance of our cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was primarily driven by the proceeds from the issuance of our common stock. Cash Flow Data Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 $ Change (In thousands) Net cash flows provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 10,876 $ 23,011 $ (12,135 ) Investing activities (55,348 ) (9,501 ) (45,847 ) Financing activities 65,202 (9,226 ) 74,428 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 51 (114 ) 165 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 20,781 $ 4,170 $ 16,611 Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 were consisted of net loss, adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred tax assets, and net change in operating assets and liabilities. The $12.1 million decrease in cash flows from operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to the year-ago period, was driven primarily by a $9.7 million decrease in net change from operating assets and liabilities, and a $2.8 million increase in net loss, partially offset by a $0.4 million increase in non-cash adjustments to net loss, which was primarily due to (i) an increase in deferred tax assets of 1.3 million, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million, and an increase in share-based compensation expense of $0.8 million. The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 were as follows: Other noncurrent assets decreased by $1.4 million, primarily due to a decrease in the noncurrent portion of unbilled receivables due to the timing of billing and revenue recognition. Accounts payable decreased by $3.9 million primarily due to the timing of payments of invoices and payment of an invoice for a multi-year licensing and distribution agreement related to our Exensio software. Accrued and other liabilities increased by $1.6 million primarily due to increase in accrued legal fees and accrued cloud-services related costs. Deferred revenues increased by a total of $6.9 million primarily due to timing of billing and revenue recognition. 40 Table of Contents Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities increased by $45.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the year-ago period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, cash used in investing activities primarily related to purchases of about $50.0 million short-term investments and property and a $5.4 million equipment purchased and prepayment for our DFI solution, including construction of additional eProbe tools. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, cash flows used in investing activities related to (i) a $6.8 million property and equipment purchased primarily related to the construction of our DFI solution and expansion of our research and development laboratory and clean room, and (ii) a $2.7 million payment for a business acquisition that closed in the second quarter of 2019. Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $74.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the year-ago period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $65.0 million net proceeds from issuance of common stock in connection with the Securities Purchase Agreement with Advantest, and $3.5 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options, partially offset by $3.3 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $9.6 million in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, and $1.9 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $2.5 million of proceeds from our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and exercise of stock options. Related Party Transactions Refer to Note 3, Strategic Partnership Agreement with Advantest and Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) for a discussion on related party transactions between the Company and Advantest. Off-Balance Sheet Agreements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings or debt. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations (in thousands) as of September 30, 2020: Payments Due by Period 2020 (remaining 2025 three and Contractual Obligations months) 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter Total Operating lease obligations(1) $ 392 $ 1,876 $ 1,626 $ 1,127 $ 809 $ 2,979 $ 8,809 Purchase obligations(2) 6,559 6,796 700 365 321 321 15,062 Total(3) $ 6,951 $ 8,672 $ 2,326 $ 1,492 $ 1,130 $ 3,300 $ 23,871 (1) Refer to Note 5, Leases of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 1 of Part I of this Report) (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered in the ordinary course of business. (3) The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.8 million, which are not practicable to assign to any particular years, due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 41 Table of Contents