Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, along with other reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), external documents, and oral presentations, contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, will, could, should, estimates, may, targets, strategies, projects, forecasts, guidance, likely, and usually, or variations of such words and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking statements deal with future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: our future financial performance and business plans; the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources; the continued payment of our quarterly dividends; the timing of revenue recognition; management of our transition to a more subscription-based business model; variation in demand for our products and services, including among clients in the public sector; reliance on key personnel; the impact of actual or threatened public health emergencies, such as the Coronavirus (COVID-19); reliance on third-party service providers, including hosting providers; compliance with our debt obligations and covenants; the potential impact of our convertible senior notes and Capped Call Transactions; the relocation of our corporate headquarters; the continued uncertainties in the global economy; foreign currency exchange rates; the potential legal and financial liabilities and damage to our reputation due to cyber-attacks; security breaches and security flaws; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, costs associated with defending such rights, as well as intellectual property rights claims and other related claims by third parties; our client retention rate; and management of our growth. These risks and others that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and other filings we make with the SEC. Except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements publicly, whether due to new information, future events, or otherwise. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report represent our views as of February 16, 2022. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business We develop, market, license, host, and support enterprise software that helps organizations simplify business complexity. Our powerful low-code platform for workflow automation and AI-powered decisioning enables the worlds leading brands and government agencies to hyper-personalize customer experiences, streamline customer service, and automate mission-critical business processes and workflows. With Pega, our clients can leverage our intelligent technology and scalable architecture to accelerate their digital transformation. Our client success teams, world-class partners, and clients themselves leverage our Pega Express methodology to design and deploy mission-critical applications quickly and collaboratively. To grow our business, we intend to: increase market share by developing and delivering a low-code platform for workflow automation and AI-powered decisioning for buyers in marketing, sales, service, operations, and IT that can work together seamlessly with maximum competitive differentiation; deepen and expand our relationships with existing clients; establish relationships with new clients; and continue to scale our marketing efforts to support the way todays buyers discover, evaluate, and choose products and services. Whether we are successful depends, in part, on our ability to: execute our marketing and sales strategies; appropriately manage our expenses as we grow our organization; effectively develop new products and enhance our existing products; and incorporate acquired technologies into our solutions and unified Pega Platform. Subscription transition We are transitioning our business to sell software primarily through subscription arrangements. Until we fully complete our subscription transition, which we expect will occur in 2023, our revenue and operating cash flow growth may be impacted. Operating performance and the actual mix of revenue and new arrangements in each period can fluctuate based on client preferences for our perpetual and subscription offerings. See risk factor "If we fail to manage our transition to a more subscription-based business model successfully, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted" in Item 1A of this Annual Report for additional information. Our Products Pega Infinity, the latest version of our software portfolio, helps connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements. 4 Our applications and platform intersect with and encompass several software markets, including: Customer Engagement, including Customer Relationship Management (CRM); Digital Process Automation (DPA), including Business Process Management (BPM), Workflow, and Dynamic Case Management (DCM); Low-code application development platforms (LCAP), including Multi-experience Development Platforms (MXDP); Robotic Process Automation (RPA); Business Rules Management Systems (BRMS); Decision Management, including predictive and adaptive analytics; and the Vertical-Specific Software (VSS) market of industry solutions and packaged applications. 1:1 Customer Engagement Our omnichannel customer engagement applications are designed to maximize the lifetime value of customers and help reduce the costs of serving customers while ensuring a consistent, unified, and personalized customer experience. At the center of our customer engagement applications is the Pega Customer Decision Hub, our real-time, AI-powered decision engine, which can predict a customers behavior and recommend the next best action to take across channels in real-time. It is designed to enable enterprises to improve customer acquisition and experience across inbound, outbound, and paid media channels. It incorporates Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the form of predictive and machine-learning analytics, as well as business rules, and executes these decisions in real-time to evaluate the context of each customer interaction and dynamically deliver the most relevant action, offer, content, and channel. Customer Service The Pega Customer Service application simplifies customer service. It is designed to anticipate customer needs, connect customers to the right people and systems, automate or intelligently guide customer interactions, rapidly and continuously evolve the customer service experience, and allow enterprises to deliver consistent interactions across channels and improve employee productivity. The application consists of a contact center desktop, case management for customer service, chat, knowledge management, mobile field service, omnichannel self-service, AI-powered virtual assistants, and industry-specific processes (Microjourney) and data models. For clients who want to extend intelligence and automation into the early stages of the customer journey, Pega Sales Automation automates and manages the entire sales process, from prospecting to product fulfillment. It allows enterprises to capture best practices and leverage AI to guide sales teams through the sales and customer onboarding processes. Intelligent Automation Pega Platform, our software for Intelligent Automation, boosts the efficiency of our clients processes and workflows. This technology allows organizations to take an end-to-end approach to transformation by using intelligence and design thinking to streamline processes and create better experiences for their customers and employees. Intelligent automation goes beyond traditional Business Process Management (BPM) to unify technologies such as Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and AI and enable organization-wide digital transformation. With its Intelligent Automation capabilities, the Pega Platform allows clients to break down silos, improve customer-centricity, add agility to legacy technology, and provide end-to-end automation to support the needs of customers and employees. Our Capabilities We drive better business outcomes for our clients in three ways: 1:1 Customer Engagement : we enable clients to hyper-personalize interactions with their customers using our AI-powered decision engine, resulting in higher customer lifetime value. Customer Service : we enable clients to streamline customer service and deliver better service experiences for their customers and employees, resulting in higher customer satisfaction and loyalty and reduced cost. Intelligent Automation : we enable clients to automate mission-critical workflows, resulting in improved operational efficiency, faster time to value, and lower cost. We deliver our solution through our Center-out Business Architecture , enabling clients to transcend channels and internal data silos to achieve quick wins and long-term transformation. This approach insulates business logic from back-end and front-end complexity, delivering consistent experiences to customers and agility to the business. The key aspects of this architecture are: Centrally-managed intelligence Pegas centrally-managed intelligence ensures AI and business rules operate across all channels. Applications built on Pegas low-code Platform leverage predictive and adaptive analytics to deliver personalized customer experiences and maximize business objectives. For example, Pega Customer Decision Hub, a centralized, always-on customer brain, unleashes the power of predictive analytics, machine learning, and real-time decisioning across our clients data, systems, and touchpoints - orchestrating engagement across customer interaction channels. 5 End-to-end automation aligned with business outcomes We combine human-assisted robotic desktop automation and unattended robotic process automation with our unified workflow and case management capabilities. This combination provides our platform and applications the differentiated ability to automate customer-facing and back office operational processes from end to end, connecting across organizational and system silos to connect customers and employees to outcomes seamlessly and easily. Consistent omnichannel experiences With centrally defined business and process logic, Pega provides dynamic, open APIs to keep front-end channels and business logic aligned for consistent customer experiences. By leveraging innovative user interface (UI) technology, Pega-powered processes and decisions can be easily embedded into existing front-ends or used as the basis for new employee-facing applications. Insulation of back-end complexity Pegas architecture insulates case and decision logic from the complexity of back-end systems. Our data virtualization automatically pulls in needed data in a common structure, regardless of source. This capability gives clients the agility to build new experiences on existing systems, modernizing legacy systems without breaking existing processes. A layered approach to managing variation Pegas Situational Layer Cake organizes logic into layers that map to the unique dimensions of a clients business customer types, lines of business, geographies, etc. This layered approach lets organizations manage variations of their businesses without duplicating logic. This capability allows initial deployments into a single department or region to seamlessly scale to manage the complexity of a global, multi-line enterprise. In addition to our Center-out Business Architecture, Pega technology has been designed to be deployed rapidly, be changed easily, and scale across changing architecture needs. Pega Express Methodology and low-code Our solutions are designed to quickly improve targeted customer outcomes with out-of-the-box functionality that connects enterprise data and systems to customer experience channels. From there, organizations can scale one customer experience at a time to realize greater value while delivering increasingly consistent and personalized customer experiences. We prescribe a Microjourney approach to delivery that breaks customer journeys into discrete processes that drive meaningful outcomes, such as inquiring about a bill or updating an insurance policy, allowing us to combine design-thinking and out-of-the-box functionality to deliver rapid results and ensure the ability to enhance applications in the future. Our approach leverages low-code to improve business and IT collaboration and bypass the error-prone and time-consuming process of manually translating requirements into code. Users design software in low-code visual models that reflect the needs of the business. The software application is created and optimized automatically and directly from the model, helping to close the costly gap between vision and execution. Changes to the code are made by altering the model, and application documentation is generated directly from the model. Cloud choice Pega Cloud allows clients to develop, test, and deploy, on an accelerated basis, our applications and the Pega Platform using a secure, flexible internet-based infrastructure, minimizing cost while focusing on core revenue-generating competencies. Clients can also manage the Pega deployment themselves using the cloud architecture they prefer. This multi-cloud approach of both Pega Cloud and client-managed cloud gives our clients the ability to select and change, as needed, the best cloud architecture for the security, data access, speed-to-market, and budget requirements of each application they deploy. Our Services and Support We offer services and support through our Global Client Success, Global Service Assurance, Global Client Support, and Pega Academy groups. We also use third-party contractors to assist us in providing these services. Global Client Success Global Client Success guides our clients to maximize their investment in our technology and realize the business outcomes they are targeting. Within Global Client Success, our Client Innovation team helps clients transform and prototype their customer journeys through our Pega Catalyst offering, our Success team ensures our clients receive the maximum business value from their Pega investments, and our Pega Consulting team provides planning, design, implementation, and advisory and assurance services. Global Service Assurance Global Service Assurance addresses risks to client success because of technical concerns. By providing technical staff dedicated to client success, we reduce the time to resolve technical issues, eliminate lengthy deliberations of technical resource logistics, and increase clients confidence in our technology and client service. Global Client Support Global Client Support provides technical support for our products and Pega Cloud services. Support services include cloud service reliability management, online support community management, self-service knowledge, proactive problem prevention through information and knowledge sharing, problem tracking, prioritization, escalation, diagnosis, and resolution. 6 Pega Academy The success of our sales strategy for repeat sales to target clients depends on enablement and ecosystem engagement. We have increased our ability to train partners and clients to implement our technology and made it easier for individuals to stay current as it evolves. We offer instructor-led and online training to our employees, clients, and partners. We have also partnered with universities to provide our courseware as part of student curriculum to expand our ecosystem. Engagement is an important part of our strategy to create a broad ecosystem passionate about Pega technology. Our Partners We collaborate with global systems integrators and technology consulting firms that provide consulting services to our clients, as well as Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and technology partners that extend clients investments with integrated solutions . In addition, Authorized Training Partners (ATPs) support Pega customers in local languages, while our Workforce Development Partners let clients outsource their recruiting . Strategic partnerships with these firms are important to our sales efforts because they influence buying decisions, identify sales opportunities, and complement our software with their domain expertise, solutions, and services capabilities. These partners may deliver strategic business planning, consulting, project management, training, and implementation services to our clients. Our partners include well-respected major firms, such as Accenture PLC, Amazon.com, Inc., Capgemini SA, Coforge, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, EY, HCL Infosys, Merkle, PwC, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Virtusa Corporation, and Wipro Limited. Our Markets Target Clients Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require solutions to distinguish themselves in the markets they serve. Our solutions achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. Along with our partners, we deliver solutions tailored to our clients specific industry needs. Our clients represent many industries, including: Financial services Financial services organizations rely on software to market, onboard, cross-sell, retain, and service their customers, as well as automate the operations that support these customer interactions. Our intelligent automation, customer service, account onboarding, Know Your Customer (KYC), payment dispute and exception management, collections, and next best action solutions allow clients to improve the efficiency of their operations and provide better service to their customers. Communications and media Communications and media organizations need to address high levels of customer churn, growing pressure to increase revenue, and an ability to respond quickly to changing market conditions. Our solutions enable organizations to reshape how they engage with customers and increase customer lifetime value throughout the customer lifecycle by delivering personalized customer experiences and intelligent workflows. Our solutions are designed to solve the most critical business issues, including increasing cross-sell/upsell, improving customer service effectiveness, and automating work. Government Government agencies need to modernize legacy systems and processes to meet the growing demands for improved constituent service, lower costs, reduced fraud, and greater transparency. Our solutions deliver advanced capabilities to help streamline operations and optimize service delivery through an agile, low-risk approach. Life sciences and healthcare Life sciences and healthcare organizations are looking for solutions to improve patient and clinician engagement, as well as deliver personalized products, services, and care while reducing costs, automating processes, increasing operational efficiency, and integrating front and back-offices. Our customer engagement and intelligent automation solutions allow life science organizations to accelerate the research and development and product launch process, digitize clinical trials, transform operations, and provide regulatory transparency. Our solutions allow healthcare clients to address the sales, service, care, operational, financial, administrative, regulatory requirements of healthcare consumerism, reform, and transformation to healthcare services organizations. Insurance Insurance companies, whether competing globally or nationally, need software to automate policyholder acquisition, cross-sell/upsell, underwriting, claims, policy service, and retention activities across operations and distribution channels. Insurers are also becoming increasingly sensitive to improving customer service and overall customer experience. Our solutions for insurance carriers are designed to help increase business value by delivering customer-focused experiences and personalized interactions that help drive higher sales, lower expense ratios, and mitigate risk. Consumer services Consumer services organizations provide services to a range of consumers in industries such as transportation, utilities, internet providers, retail, hospitality, and entertainment. Our 1:1 customer engagement, customer service, and intelligent automation solutions help these organizations personalize their customer engagement and automate work to drive revenue through cross-sell/upsell and increase service efficiency while increasing customer satisfaction. Manufacturing and high tech Manufacturers streamline their complex global operations and create more value for their customers, dealers, distributors, and suppliers while directly managing the performance, uptime, and impact of their connected products, equipment, and experiences. Our manufacturing solutions reduce the complexity of enterprise operations in domains like supply chain, order management, quality management, shared services, customer service, and aftermarket services, including warranty management and captive finance, while minimizing the constraints on digital transformation caused by legacy systems. 7 Competition The markets for our offerings are intensely competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented as current competitors expand their product offerings and new companies enter the market. We compete in the CRM, including marketing, sales, and customer service, and DPA, including BPM, case management, decision management, robotic automation, co-browsing, social engagement, and mobile application development platform software markets, as well as in markets for the vertical applications we provide (e.g., Pega Know Your Customer TM for Financial Services, Pega Care Management). We also compete with clients internal information systems departments that seek to modify their existing systems or develop their own proprietary systems and professional service organizations that develop their own products or create custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services. Competitors vary in size, scope, and breadth of the products and services they offer and include some of the worlds largest companies, including Salesforce.com, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE, ServiceNow, and International Business Machines Corporation (IBM). We have been most successful in competing for clients whose businesses are characterized by a high degree of change, complexity, or regulation. We believe we are competitively differentiated from our competitors because our unified Pega Platform is designed to allow client business and IT staff, using a single, intuitive user interface, to build and evolve enterprise applications in a fraction of the time it would take with disjointed architectures and tools offered by many of our competitors. In addition, our applications, built on the Pega Platform, provide the same level of flexibility and ability to adapt to our clients needs as the Pega Platform. We believe we compete favorably due to our expertise in our target industries and our long-standing client relationships. We believe we compete less favorably on some of the above factors against our larger competitors, many of which have greater sales, marketing, and financial resources, more extensive geographical presence, and greater name recognition. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage against our larger competitors with respect to our ability to provide expertise outside our target industries. See risk factor "The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and fragmented" in Item 1A of this Annual Report for additional information. Intellectual Property We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality and intellectual property agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have obtained patents relating to our system architecture and products in strategic global markets. We enter into confidentiality, intellectual property ownership, and license agreements with our employees, partners, clients, and other third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we also control access to and ownership of software, services, documentation, and other information. Sales and Marketing We encourage our direct sales force and outside partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives, and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and focus our resources on continued innovation and enhancement of our solutions. In addition, strategic partnerships with management consulting firms and major systems integrators are important to our sales efforts because they influence buying decisions, help us identify sales opportunities, and complement our software and services with their domain expertise and consulting capabilities. We also partner with technology providers and application developers. To support our sales efforts, we conduct a broad range of marketing programs, including awareness advertising, client and industry-targeted solution campaigns, trade shows, including our PegaWorld iNspire user conference, solution seminars and webinars, industry analyst and press relations, web and digital marketing, community development, social media presence, and other direct and indirect marketing efforts. In addition, our consulting employees, business partners, and other third parties also conduct joint and separate marketing campaigns that generate sales leads. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for product architecture, core technology development, product testing, and quality assurance. Our product development priority is to continue expanding our technologys capabilities and ensure we deliver superior cloud-native solutions. We intend to maintain and extend the support of our existing applications, and we may choose to invest in additional strategic applications that incorporate the latest business innovations. We also intend to maintain and extend the support of popular hardware platforms, operating systems, databases, and connectivity options to facilitate easy and rapid deployment in diverse IT infrastructures. Our goal with all products is to enhance product capabilities, implementation ease, long-term flexibility, and improve client service. 8 Backlog As of December 31, 2021, we expected to recognize approximately $1.3 billion in revenue from backlog on existing contracts in future periods. See "Remaining performance obligations ("Backlog")" in Item 7 of this Annual Report for additional information. Our People As of January 31, 2022, we had 6,133 employees, of which 2,537 were based in the Americas, 1,422 were based in Europe, 1,826 were based in India, and 348 were based elsewhere in Asia-Pacific. As a high technology company, our employees are critical to our success. We strive to be an employer of choice that can attract and retain exceptional talent. We aim to create a corporate culture that is equitable, inclusive, and diverse. We believe that encouraging employee development will help achieve our goal of developing, expanding, and retaining our workforce to support our business. We build our corporate culture through a variety of initiatives, including global inclusion and diversity, employee engagement, pay equity, and employee development. Global Inclusion and Diversity An inclusive and diverse culture contributes to our ability to deliver innovative products and services, which is critical to our success. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity begins with a highly skilled and diverse board and includes our commitment to educate both managers and individual contributors about our corporate values. We have made significant investments in furthering our culture of inclusion, including hiring a Global Leader of Inclusion and Diversity in 2020 and a Diversity Talent Attraction Partner in 2021. We expanded our diversity recruiting efforts and delivered inclusivity workshops to managers and individual contributors at all levels. We currently sponsor formal employee resource groups for the following communities: women, veterans, Black, LGBTQIA+, Asian, Latinx, and persons with disabilities. Employee Engagement, Health, and Well-Being Our efforts to recruit and retain diverse and passionate employees include providing competitive rewards packages and ensuring active communication throughout the Company. We regularly solicit and collect feedback to better understand and improve our employee experience and identify opportunities to strengthen our corporate culture. In 2021, in addition to our employee survey and continuous feedback tools, we hosted check-in chats with our leadership team to directly address our employees questions and constructive feedback. We are committed to creating an environment that supports our employees health and overall well-being, focusing on physical, emotional, financial, and personal wellness. PegaUp!, our employee wellness program, includes awareness campaigns, fitness classes, guided meditation, as well as health, wellness, and financial seminars. Pay Equity We compensate our employees for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other personal characteristics. To deliver that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider individual factors, such as an employees role and experience, job location, and job performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices, both in terms of our overall workforce and individual employees, to ensure our pay is fair and equitable. Employee Development Employee development underpins our efforts to execute our strategy and continue creating and selling innovative products and services. We continually invest in our employees career growth and provide employees with a wide range of development opportunities, including formal and informal learning, mentoring, and coaching. Pega Academy helps employees, clients, and partners gain and advance Pega software skills more rapidly. To ensure our businesss long-term continuity, we actively manage talent development to fill the roles most critical to our success. To support our current and future leaders development, Pega offers five programs addressing the development of people managers and leaders in a cohort format comprised of all functions and geographies. We also provide educational resources and classes, career training, and education reimbursement programs. In 2021, more than 4,900 of our employees participated in a formal education program. Corporate Information Pegasystems Inc. was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1983. Our stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PEGA. Our website is located at www.pega.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.pega.com/about/investors. Available Information We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, free of charge, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish such material to the SEC. We also make available on our website reports filed by our executive officers and directors on Forms 3, 4, and 5 regarding their ownership of our securities. Our Code of Conduct is available on our website in the Governance section. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Events that we do not currently anticipate, or that we currently expect to be immaterial, may also affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to manage our transition to a more subscription-based business model successfully, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We are transitioning to a more subscription-based business model, which impacts our revenue and cash flow. The subscription model prices and delivers our software differently than a perpetual license model. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales in favor of providing our clients the right to access our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. The shift of our clients preference to subscription-based offerings requires a scalable organization, and a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, managerial, and sales resources. Market acceptance of our subscription-based offerings will depend on our ability to continue to: innovate and include new functionality and improve the usability of our products in a manner that addresses our clients needs and requirements; and optimally price our products considering marketplace conditions, competition, our costs, and client demand. Our cloud-based subscription model also requires that we rely on third parties to host our software for our clients. We incur significant recurring third-party hosting expenses to deliver our Pega Cloud offering that we do not incur for our perpetual and term license products. These expenses may cause the gross margin we realize from our Pega Cloud sales to be lower than the gross margin we realize from our perpetual and term license products. If we are unable to meet these challenges effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The transition to a subscription-based business model gives rise to several risks, including: our revenues and cash flows may fluctuate more than anticipated in the near term; if the increased demand for our offerings does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses and reduced or negative cash flow because of our continued significant investments in our Pega Cloud offering; if new or current clients desire only perpetual licenses, our subscription sales may trail our expectations; we may be unsuccessful in maintaining or implementing our target pricing or new pricing models, product adoption, and projected renewal rates, or we may select a target price or new pricing model that is not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings; a failure to achieve the anticipated level of subscriptions may cause our revenue to decline and our business to be materially adversely affected on an ongoing basis due to lower-than-expected recurring revenue; and we may incur sales compensation costs at a higher than forecasted rate if the pace of our subscription transition is faster than anticipated. The metrics our investors and we use to monitor our business model transition may evolve during the transition as significant trends emerge. Therefore, it may be difficult to accurately determine the impact of this transition on our business on a contemporaneous basis or to communicate the appropriate metrics to our investors clearly. We may not achieve the key elements of our strategy and grow our business as anticipated. We currently intend to grow our business by pursuing strategic initiatives. Key elements of our strategy include increasing our market share by developing and delivering robust solutions that can work together seamlessly with maximum differentiation and minimal customization, offering versatility in the Pega Platform and application deployment and licensing options to meet the specific needs of our clients, growing our network of partner alliances, and developing the talent and organizational structure capable of supporting our revenue and earnings growth targets. We may not achieve one or more of our key initiatives. Our success depends on our ability to manage our expenses as we grow our organization appropriately, successfully execute our marketing and sales strategies, successfully incorporate acquired technologies into our unified Pega Platform, and develop new products or product enhancements. If we are not able to execute these actions, our business may not grow as we anticipate, and our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, and must attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our business is dependent on key, highly skilled technical, managerial, consulting, sales, and marketing personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, who is also our founder and largest stockholder. 10 The loss of key personnel could be disruptive to our operations and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We do not carry, nor do we currently intend to obtain, significant key-person life insurance on officers or other employees. Our success will depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel and, as needed, rapidly replacing and developing new management. The number of potential employees who have the extensive knowledge needed to develop, sell, and maintain our offerings is limited, and competition for their services is intense. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and difficulty in retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, we believe our corporate culture has been a key contributor to our success to date. As we continue to grow and expand globally and navigate shifting workforce priorities, including an extended period of time in which our employees are working from their home locations or an increase in remote workers, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success. The timing of our license and Pega Cloud revenue is difficult to predict, which may cause our operating results to vary considerably. A change in the size or volume of license and Pega Cloud arrangements, or a change in the mix between perpetual licenses, term licenses, and Pega Cloud arrangements, can cause our revenues and cash flows to fluctuate materially between periods. Revenue from Pega Cloud and maintenance arrangements is typically recognized over the contract term, while revenue from license sales is recognized when the license rights become effective, typically upfront. Subscription license and services are generally billed and collected over the contract term, while perpetual license arrangements usually are billed and collected upfront when the license rights become effective. Factors that may influence the predictability of our license and Pega Cloud revenue include: changes in clients budgets and decision-making processes that could affect both the timing and size of transactions; the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products or services; changes in our business model; and our ability to execute our marketing and sales strategies. We budget for our selling and marketing, product development, and other expenses based upon anticipated future bookings and revenue. If the timing or amount of revenue fails to meet our expectations, our financial performance is likely to be materially adversely affected because only a small portion of our expenses vary with revenue. Other factors that may cause our operating results to vary include changes in foreign currency exchange rates, income tax effects, and the impact of new accounting pronouncements. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. If our revenues and operating results do not meet the expectations of our investors or securities analysts or fall below guidance we may provide to the market, or due to other factors discussed elsewhere in this section, the price of our common stock may decline. The number and value of license and Pega Cloud arrangements has been increasing, and we may not be able to sustain this growth unless our partners and we can provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, and maintenance resources to enable our clients to realize significant business value from our software. Our clients typically request consulting and training to assist them in implementing our license and Pega Cloud offerings. Our clients also usually purchase maintenance on our perpetual and term licenses. As a result, an increase in the number and value of license and Pega Cloud arrangements is likely to increase demand for consulting, training, and maintenance related to our offerings. Given that the number and value of our license and Pega Cloud arrangements has been growing, we will need to provide our clients with more consulting, training, and maintenance to enable them to realize significant business value from our software. We have been increasing our partner and client enablement through training to create an expanded ecosystem of people that are skilled in the implementation of our solutions. However, if our partners and we are unable to provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, and maintenance resources, our clients may not realize sufficient business value from our offerings to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. Further, some of our client engagements have high public visibility. If our partners or we encounter problems in helping these clients implement our license and Pega Cloud offerings or if there is negative publicity regarding these engagements (even if unrelated to our services or offerings), our reputation could be harmed and our future financial performance could be negatively impacted. Finally, the investments required to meet the increased demand for our consulting services could strain our ability to deliver our consulting engagements at desired profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. We may not be able to maintain our retention rate for our subscription clients. An increasing percentage of our revenue has been derived from our subscription offerings. Our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, although historically, most have elected to do so. If our retention rate for those clients decreases our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially affected. 11 We are investing heavily in sales and marketing, research and development, and support resources in anticipation of continued growth in license and Pega Cloud arrangements, and we may experience decreased profitability or losses and reduced or negative cash flow if we do not continue to increase the value of our license and Pega Cloud arrangements to balance our growth in expenses. We have been expanding our sales and marketing capacity to meet the increasing demand for our software and to broaden our market coverage by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel. We anticipate that we will need to provide our clients with more maintenance support because of this increase in demand and have been hiring additional personnel in this area. We continue to invest significantly in research and development to expand and improve the Pega Platform and applications. These investments have resulted in increased fixed costs that do not vary with the level of revenue. If the increased demand for our offerings does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses and reduced or negative cash flow because of these increased fixed costs. Conversely, if we are unable to hire sales and marketing personnel to meet future demand or research and development personnel to enhance our current products or develop new products, we may not be able to achieve our sales and profitability targets . We face risks from operations and clients based outside of the United States. We market our products and services to clients based outside of the U.S., which represent 42% of our revenue over the last three years. We have established offices in the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Australia. We believe that growth will necessitate expanded international operations, resulting in increased managerial attention and costs. We anticipate hiring additional personnel to accommodate increased international demand, and we may also enter into agreements with local distributors, representatives, or resellers. If we are unable to do one or more of these things in a timely and effective manner, the growth, if any, of our international operations may be restricted, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities include: laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy, and data privacy and protection; increased tariffs and other trade barriers; the costs of localizing offerings for local markets, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; longer payment cycles and credit and collectability risk on our foreign trade receivables; difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; heightened fraud and bribery risks; treatment of revenue from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws, being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions, and other potentially adverse tax consequences (including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of double taxation); management of our international operations, including increased administrative and compliance expenses; heightened risks of political and economic instability; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and controls. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on third-party relationships. We have a number of relationships with third parties that are significant to our sales, marketing, support, and product development efforts, including hosting facilities for our Pega Cloud offering. We rely on software and hardware vendors, large system integrators, and technology consulting firms to supply marketing and sales opportunities for our direct sales force and to strengthen our offerings using industry-standard tools and utilities. We also have relationships with third parties that distribute our products. There can be no assurance that these companies, many of which have far greater financial and marketing resources than us, will not develop or market offerings that compete with ours in the future or will not otherwise end or limit their relationships with us. Further, the use of third-party hosting facilities requires us to rely on the functionality and availability of the third parties services, as well as their data security, which despite our due diligence, may be or become inadequate. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside of the U.S., we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales are usually denominated in foreign currencies. The operating expenses of our foreign operations are also primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure on our international sales. Our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the U.S. dollar, the Euro, and the Australian dollar relative to the British Pound. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. We have historically used but do not currently use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We may enter into hedging contracts again in the future if we believe it is appropriate. 12 Our realized gain or loss for foreign currency fluctuations will depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered forward contracts to offset these exposures, and other factors. All these factors could materially impact our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our consulting revenue is significantly dependent upon our consulting personnel implementing new license and Pega Cloud arrangements. We derive a substantial portion of our consulting revenue from implementations of new license and Pega Cloud arrangements managed by our consulting personnel and consulting for partner and client-led implementation efforts. Our strategy is to support and encourage partner-led and client-led implementations to increase the breadth, capability, and depth of market capacity to deliver implementation services to our clients. Accordingly, if our consulting personnels involvement in future implementations decreases, this could materially adversely affect our consulting revenue. We frequently enter into a series of license or Pega Cloud arrangements that are each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations. If we are not successful in obtaining follow-on business from these clients, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Once a client has realized the value of our software, we work with the client to identify opportunities for follow-on sales. However, we may not be successful in demonstrating this value for several reasons, including the performance of our products, the quality of the services and support provided by our partners and us, or external factors. Also, some of our smaller clients may have limited additional sales opportunities available. We may not obtain follow-on sales, or the follow-on sales may be delayed, and our future revenue could be limited. This could lower the total value of all transactions, and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We will need to acquire or develop new products, evolve existing ones, address any defects or errors, and adapt to technology changes. Technical developments, client requirements, programming languages, industry standards, and regulatory requirements frequently change in the markets in which we operate. The introduction of third-party solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our success will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, address any product defects or errors, acquire or develop and introduce new products that meet client needs, keep pace with technology and regulatory changes, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement, and testing. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary product development investments. We may experience technical or other difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, or implementation of new or enhanced products. We may also experience technical or other challenges in the integration of acquired technologies into our existing platform and applications. Inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share if competitors are able to provide solutions to meet client needs before we do, give rise to unanticipated expenses related to further development or modification of acquired technologies, and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may also fail to anticipate adequately and prepare for the development of new markets and applications for our technology and the commercialization of emerging technologies such as blockchain and thereby fail to take advantage of new market opportunities or fall behind early movers in those markets. The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and fragmented. We encounter significant competition from: customer engagement vendors, including Customer Relationship Management application vendors; Digital Process Automation vendors and platforms, including Business Process Management vendors, low-code application development platforms, and service-oriented architecture middleware vendors; case management vendors; decision management, data science, and Artificial Intelligence vendors, as well as vendors of solutions that leverage decision making and data science in managing customer relationships and marketing; robotic automation and workforce intelligence software providers; companies that provide application-specific software for financial services, healthcare, insurance, and other specific markets; mobile application platform vendors; co-browsing software providers; social listening, text analytics, and natural language processing vendors; commercialized open-source vendors; professional services organizations that develop their own products or create custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services; and clients in-house information technology departments, which may seek to modify their existing systems or develop their own proprietary systems. 13 Many of our competitors, such as Salesforce.com, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE, ServiceNow, and International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), have far greater resources than we do and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new or emerging technologies, programming languages or standards, or changes in client requirements or preferences. Competitors may also be able to devote greater managerial and financial resources to develop, promote, and distribute products and to provide related consulting and training services. We believe the principal competitive factors within our market include: product adaptability, scalability, functionality, and performance; proven success in delivering cost-savings and efficiency improvements; proven success in enabling improved customer interactions; ease-of-use for developers, business units, and end-users; timely development and introduction of new products and product enhancements; establishment of a significant base of reference clients; ability to integrate with other products and technologies; customer service and support; product price; vendor reputation; and relationships with systems integrators. Competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions is likely to increase. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by us will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. See "Competition" in Item 1 of this Annual Report for additional information. Our Chief Executive Officer is our largest stockholder and can exert significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders, which could materially adversely affect our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2021, our Chief Executive Officer beneficially owned approximately 49 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to exert significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, or result in actions that may be opposed by other stockholders. Risks Related to Information Technology Resilience and Security We face risks related to outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. The increasing user traffic for our Pega Cloud offering demands more computing power. It requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of client data, power outages, or telecommunications infrastructure outages, by our third-party service providers or us, could diminish the quality of our user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by clients and other third parties, damage to our reputation, loss of current and potential clients, and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Security of our systems and global client data is a growing challenge on many fronts. Cyber-attacks and security breaches may expose us to significant legal and financial liabilities. Security breaches could expose our clients and us to a risk of someone obtaining access to our information, to information our clients or their customers, or to our intellectual property, disabling or degrading service, or sabotaging systems or information. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, require us to incur significant costs of investigation, remediation and/or payment of a ransom, lead to legal liability, negatively impact our future sales, and result in a substantial financial loss. High-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years. Security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attackers targeting information technology products and businesses. Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individual hackers, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations, or nation-states themselves, may take steps that threaten our clients and us. Additionally, our Pega Cloud offering provides environments that are provisioned, monitored, and maintained for individual clients to create and deploy Pega-based applications using an Internet-based infrastructure. These services involve storing and transmitting client data and other confidential information. 14 Our security measures and those of our clients may be breached because of third-party actions or that of employees, consultants, or others, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, system errors, human errors, technical flaws in our products, or otherwise. Because we do not control the configuration of Pega applications by our clients, the transmissions between our clients and our third-party technology providers, the processing of data on the servers at third-party technology providers, or the internal controls maintained by our clients and third-party technology providers that could prevent unauthorized access or provide appropriate data encryption, we cannot fully ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions processing or controls. In addition, privacy, security, and data transmission concerns in some parts of the world may inhibit demand for our Pega Cloud offering or lead to requirements to provide our products or services in configurations that may increase the cost of serving such markets. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and are generally not recognized until launched against a target. While we have invested in protecting our data and systems and our clients data to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breaches and, in fact, we deal with security issues on a regular basis and have experienced security incidents from time to time. Accordingly, there is a risk that a security breach will be successful and that such an event will be material. We carry data breach insurance coverage to mitigate the financial impact of a security breach, though this may prove insufficient in the event of a breach. Our Pega Cloud offering involves hosting client applications on the servers of third-party technology providers. We also rely on third-party systems and technology, including encryption, virtualized infrastructure, and support, and employ a shared security model with our clients and third-party technology providers. To defend against security threats, we need to continuously engineer products and services with enhanced security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, apply technologies that mitigate the risk of attacks, and maintain a digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services. The cost of these steps could negatively impact our operating results. We rely on third-party hosting providers to deliver our offerings. Therefore, any disruption or interference with our use of these services could adversely affect our business. Our use of third-party hosting facilities requires us to rely on the functionality and availability of the third parties services, as well as their data security, which despite our due diligence, may be or become inadequate. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to use and access our cloud services or our website to download our software within an acceptable amount of time. We use a number of third-party service providers for key infrastructure components, particularly concerning the development and delivery of our cloud-based products. These service providers give us greater flexibility in efficiently delivering a more tailored, scalable customer experience and expose us to additional risks and vulnerabilities. Third-party service providers operate platforms that we access, and we are vulnerable to their service interruptions. We may experience interruptions, delays, and outages in service and availability due to problems with our third-party service providers infrastructure. This infrastructures lack of availability could be due to many potential causes, including technical failures, power shortages, natural disasters, fraud, terrorism, or security attacks that we cannot predict or prevent. Such outages could trigger our service level agreements and the issuance of credits to our clients, which may impact our business and consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to renew our agreements with our cloud service providers on commercially reasonable terms, an agreement is prematurely terminated, or we need to add new cloud services providers to increase capacity and uptime, we could experience interruptions, downtime, delays, and additional expenses related to transferring to and providing support for these new platforms. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation and brand, reduce our platforms availability or usage, and impair our ability to attract new users, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services and could face privacy, product liability, and warranty claims. Despite quality testing each release, our software frequently contains errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software could affect its ability to work with hardware or other software or delay the development or release of new products or new versions of our software. Additionally, detecting and correcting any security flaws can be time-consuming and costly. Errors or security flaws in our software could result in the inadvertent disclosure of confidential information or personal data relating to our clients, employees, or third parties. Software errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to privacy, product liability, or warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Typically, we enter into license agreements that contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of product liability and warranty claims. There is a risk that a court might interpret these terms in a limited way or hold part or all of these terms unenforceable. Also, there is a risk that these contract terms might not bind a party other than the direct client. Furthermore, some of our licenses with our clients are governed by non-U.S. law, and there is a risk that foreign law might give us less or different protection. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, a product liability suit or action claiming a breach of warranty, whether meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and our resources. 15 Risks Related to Our Financial Obligations and Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt that may limit our business flexibility, access to capital, and/or increase our borrowing costs, and we may still incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. As of December 31, 2021, we had $600 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness under our Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the Notes). Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; dilute the interests of our existing stockholders because of issuing shares of our common stock upon the conversion of the Notes; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to pay our debt when due or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and make necessary investments in our business. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital market conditions and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations which could, in turn, result in that and our other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full which could harm our financial condition, results of operation or cost of borrowing. In addition, we may incur additional debt to meet future financing needs. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness will increase. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under certain circumstances, the noteholders may convert their Notes at their option prior to the scheduled maturities. Upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion, we will be obligated to make cash payments. In addition, holders of our Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture, dated as of February 24, 2020, between U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the Trustee) and us (the Indenture)), at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. Although it is our intention and we currently expect to settle the conversion value of the Notes in cash up to the principal amount and any excess in shares, there is a risk that we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to make payments may be limited by law, by regulatory authority, or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes when the Indenture requires the repurchase or to pay any cash payable on the Notes future conversions as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. In addition, even if holders of Notes do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The Capped Call Transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the Notes issuance, we entered Capped Call Transactions with certain financial institutions (option counterparties). The Capped Call Transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. From time to time, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions before the maturity of the Notes. This activity could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 16 We are exposed to counterparty risk for the Capped Call Transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of the option counterparties may default or otherwise fail to perform, or may exercise certain rights to terminate, their obligations under the Capped Call Transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under such transaction. Our exposure depends on many factors, but our exposure will generally increase if the market price or the volatility of our common stock increases. In addition, upon default or other failures to perform, or termination of obligations, by an option counterparty, we may suffer more dilution in our common stock than we currently anticipate. We can provide no guarantee as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Provisions in the Notes Indenture may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to our stockholders. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the Notes maturity date, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) occurs prior to the maturity date, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate of the Notes for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. Furthermore, the Indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions in the Indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to our stockholders. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect our common stocks prevailing market prices. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our revolving credit facility. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the credit facility. We must comply with specified financial and operating covenants under our credit facility and make payments, limiting our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any debt payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and/or unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants under the credit facility at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. The financial and operating covenants under the credit facility may limit our ability to borrow funds or capital, including for strategic acquisitions, share repurchases, and other general corporate purposes. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on maintaining and increasing our sales to clients in the public sector. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with federal, state, local, and foreign governments and agencies. We believe that our businesss success and growth will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Factors that could impede our ability to maintain or increase the revenue derived from government contracts include: changes in fiscal or contracting policies; decreases in available government funding; changes in government programs or applicable requirements; the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or other funding authorization processes; governments and governmental agencies requiring contractual terms that are unfavorable to us, such as most-favored-nation pricing provisions; and delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. The occurrence of any of those factors could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing our software in the future or otherwise harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 17 Further, to increase our sales to clients in the public sector, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, performance, and pricing of contracts with the public sector, including U.S. federal, state, and local governmental bodies, which affect how our channel partners and we do business in connection with governmental agencies. These laws and regulations may impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations or other applicable requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners or government clients, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of intellectual property rights, and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. Any such damages, penalties, disruptions, or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to increasingly complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, requiring costly compliance measures. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, data privacy and security laws, and similar laws and regulations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to obtain or retain business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we do or intend to do business. Data privacy laws and regulations in Europe, Australia, Latin America, and elsewhere are undergoing a rapid transformation toward increased restrictions. In April 2016, the European Parliament adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It became effective in May 2018. The GDPR extends the scope of European privacy laws to any entity that controls or processes personal data of European Union residents in connection with the offer of goods or services or the monitoring of behavior and imposes new compliance obligations concerning the handling of personal data. Complying with the GDPR and other emerging and changing requirements caused us to incur additional costs in 2021 and may cause us to incur substantial additional costs or require us to change our business practices. Compliance also depends on how regulators choose to interpret and apply the new requirements. Moreover, non-compliance, or if regulators assert we have not complied, with GDPR could result in significant monetary penalties of up to the higher of 20 million Euro or 4% of annual worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which creates new individual privacy rights for California consumers (as defined in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling certain personal data of consumers or households, went into effect on January 1, 2020, and the California Attorney General may now bring enforcement actions for violations. The CCPA requires, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosure to consumers about such companies data collection, use and sharing practices, provide such consumers new ways to opt-out of certain sales or transfers of personal information, and provide consumers with additional causes of action. Further, California voters approved a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) in the November 3, 2020 election. Effective January 1, 2023, the CPRA will significantly modify the CCPA, including by expanding California consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also creates a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. The CCPA and CPRA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. We have developed and implemented a compliance program based on what we believe are reasonable practices, including the background checking of our current partners and prospective clients and partners. We cannot guarantee, however, that we, our employees, our consultants, our partners, or our contractors are or will be compliant with all federal, state, and foreign regulations, particularly as we expand our operations outside of the U.S. If our representatives or we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties, and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are determined not to have violated these laws, government inquiries into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also harm our business. In addition, regulation of data privacy and security laws is increasing worldwide, including various restrictions on cross-border access or transfer of data, including personal data of our employees, our clients, and customers of our clients. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs, and there is a risk of enforcement of such laws resulting in damage to our brand, as well as financial penalties and the potential loss of business, which could be significant. Our tax exposures could be greater than anticipated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing several inquiries, audits, and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. 18 In addition, our future income taxes could be materially adversely affected by a shift in our jurisdictional income mix, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, because of changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as by certain discrete items. In the United States, such tax law changes could include the impact of the currently enacted mandatory capitalization of research and experimentation expenses, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2021 (but postponed to 2026 in the proposed Build Back Better (BBBA) Act, which is currently under consideration in the United States Congress), or new tax revenue-raising provisions also tied to the proposed BBBA. Globally, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting is advancing fundamental changes to the international corporate tax system creating new rules for allocating rights to tax global income and a global minimum tax. Considering fiscal challenges in many jurisdictions, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative actions to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes. Several U.S. states have attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income or loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Similarly, in Europe and elsewhere globally, there are various tax reform efforts underway designed to increase the taxes paid by corporate entities. If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate any of our foreign cash balances to the United States, we may be subject to increased taxes, other restrictions, and limitations. As of December 31, 2021, $88.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in our foreign subsidiaries. If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate these funds, we may be required to pay U.S. federal, state, and local income and foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation. We consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. As a result, U.S. federal, state, and local, and foreign withholding taxes on such earnings have not been provided in our financial statements. It is not practical to estimate the amount of tax we would have to pay upon repatriation due to the complexity of the tax laws and other factors. We face risks related to intellectual property claims or appropriation of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secrets laws, as well as intellectual property and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies and other proprietary information. We have obtained patents in strategically important global markets relating to the architecture of our systems. We cannot be certain that such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that rights granted thereunder, or the claims contained therein will provide us with competitive advantages. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our software or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. Although we generally enter into intellectual property and confidentiality agreements with our employees and strategic partners, despite our efforts our former employees may seek employment with our business partners, clients, or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as they do in the U.S. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Other companies or individuals have obtained proprietary rights covering a variety of designs, processes, and systems. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that we have infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property. We are currently party to litigation with Appian Corp. see Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for infringement or other violation of the proprietary rights of third parties and assert ownership of work product and intellectual property rights as appropriate, there are often exceptions, and limitations may not be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if limitations are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could be material given the size of certain of our transactions. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment and delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or be precluded from making and selling the infringing software, if such proprietary rights are found to be valid. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require substantial effort and cost. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software and may be unable to compete effectively, which could have a material effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. 19 Intellectual property rights claims by third parties are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies can dedicate greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may, therefore, provide little or no deterrence. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties' intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims. We are currently party to litigation with Appian Corp. see Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Significant judgments are required for the determination of probability and the range of the outcomes in any legal dispute, and the estimates are based only on the information available to us at the time. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in claims, legal proceedings, and in estimating the losses that may arise, actual outcomes may differ from our estimates. Contingencies deemed not probable or for which losses were not estimable in one period may become probable, or losses may become estimable in later periods which may have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments to our customers. Any of these could seriously harm our business. Actual or threatened public health emergencies could harm our business. The outbreak of a novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has spread across the globe and is impacting worldwide economic activity. A pandemic, including COVID-19, and other public health emergencies pose the risk that our employees, partners, and clients may be prevented from conducting business activities at full capacity for an indefinite period, including due to the spread of the disease within these groups or due to the shutdowns that are requested or mandated by governmental authorities. Moreover, these conditions can affect the rate of information technology spending and may adversely affect our clients willingness to purchase our solutions, delay prospective clients purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their contracts, cause our clients to request concessions including extended payment terms or better pricing, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our future sales and operating results. The global spread of COVID-19 has created significant uncertainty, and economic disruption. We have undertaken measures to protect our employees, partners, and clients, including allowing our employees to work remotely. There can be no assurance that these measures will be sufficient, however, or that we can implement them without adversely affecting our business operations. We continue to monitor COVID-19 and adjust our policies as more information and public health guidance become available. Precautionary measures that have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, could negatively affect our client success, sales, and marketing efforts, delay and lengthen our sales cycles, or create operational or other challenges, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, COVID-19 may disrupt and change our clients, vendors, and partners operations in ways that are difficult to predict, including because of travel restrictions, business shutdowns, supply chain delays and/or more pervasive remote work environments, all of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and cash flows. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the ultimate impact that COVID-19 will have on our business, as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Furthermore, due to our shift to a subscription model, the effect of COVID-19 may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business, operations, and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to predict accurately, including: the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and the impact of those actions on global economic activity; the actions that are taken in response to economic disruption; the impact of business disruptions and reductions in our clients business and the resulting impact on their demand for our services and solutions; and our ability to provide our services and solutions, including because of our employees or our clients employees working remotely and/or closures of offices and facilities. 20 General Risk Factors The provision in our amended and restated bylaws, requiring exclusive forum in certain courts in The Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the federal district court for the District of Massachusetts for certain types of lawsuits, may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Business Litigation Section of the Superior Court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts (the BLS) or, if the BLS lacks jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Massachusetts, Eastern Division, shall be the exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act (the MBCA), our articles of organization, or our bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims, or limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us or our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The continued uncertainties in the global economy may negatively impact our sales to, and the collection of receivables from our clients. Our sales to, and the collection of receivables from, our clients may be impacted by adverse changes in global economic conditions. The U.S. and other key international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time, during which economic activity has been impacted by falling demand for goods and services, inflation, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity, and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, and economic uncertainty. These changes in global economic conditions could impact the ability and willingness of our clients to make investments in technology, which in turn may delay or reduce the purchases of our software and services. These factors could also impact the ability and willingness of these clients to pay their trade obligations and honor their contractual commitments. These clients may also become subject to increasingly restrictive regulatory requirements, which could limit or delay their ability to proceed with technology purchases and may result in longer sales cycles, increased price competition, and reductions in sales of our products and services. The financial uncertainties facing many of our clients and the industries in which they operate could negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. The U.K.s withdrawal from the European Union could have a material impact on our business, including our relationships with existing and future clients, suppliers, and employees, which could harm our financial results and operations. We have material operations in the U.K. and European Union. While the full effects of Brexit will not be known for some time, the ultimate or perceived impacts of the U.K.s withdrawal from the European Union could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The impact of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to EU markets following the transition period. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty, and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determine which EU laws to replace or replicate, presenting new regulatory costs and challenges. Any of these effects could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 21 The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile . The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, some of which are related in complex ways. Factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in the prices of our products and professional services; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products or services; announcements by our competitors or us of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new offerings; our involvement in any litigation or investigations by regulators, including litigation judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs; our sale of our common stock or other securities; changes in our Board of Directors, senior management, or key personnel; the trading volume of our common stock; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic, regulatory, political, and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, regulatory, political, and market conditions, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have provided and may continue to give guidance on our business, future operating results, and other business metrics. In developing this guidance, our management must make certain assumptions and judgments about our future performance. Furthermore, analysts and investors may develop and publish their own projections of our business, which may form a consensus about our future performance. Our business results may vary significantly from such guidance or that consensus due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. Furthermore, if we make downward revisions of our previously announced guidance, or if our publicly announced guidance of future operating results fails to meet expectations of securities analysts, investors, or other interested parties, our common stock price may decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities and industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal administrative, sales, marketing, support, and research and development operations are in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Waltham, Massachusetts, and Hyderabad, India. We also maintain offices elsewhere in the Americas, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific regions. All of our properties are leased. We believe we will be able to obtain future space as needed on acceptable and commercially reasonable terms. See "Note 10. Leases" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. 22 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In addition to the matters below, the Company is, or may become, involved in a variety of claims, demands, suits, investigations, and proceedings that arise from time to time relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of the Companys business, including actions with respect to contracts, intellectual property, employment, benefits, and securities matters. Regardless of the outcome, legal disputes can have a material effect on the Company because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Pegasystems Inc. v. Appian Corp. & Business Process Management Inc. On July 3, 2019, the Company filed suit in Massachusetts federal court against Appian Corp. (Appian) and Business Process Management, Inc. (BPM) relating to a BPM Market Report that Appian had used to promote itself against the Company. Pegasystems Inc. v. Appian Corp. & Business Process Management Inc. , No. 1:19-cv-11461 (D. Mass). The Companys complaint alleges that the report and Appians marketing of it include false and misleading statements about the Company. The Company asked the court to order Appian to stop using the report, and Appian subsequently agreed to stop using the report. The Company also asked the court to award damages for false advertising, deceptive business practices, and commercial disparagement. On December 17, 2019, Appian asserted counterclaims against the Company seeking unspecified monetary damages and alleging certain of the Companys past marketing materials included false and misleading statements, one of the marketing reports failed to disclose that the reports author was paid by the Company, and that the Company defamed Appian in a LinkedIn post. On May 22, 2020, the court allowed in part the Companys motion to dismiss the counterclaims brought by Appian, but denied the motion as to the third party report and the defamation count. As described below, on May 29, 2020, Appian then sued the Company in Virginia. On June 17, 2021, Appian asserted additional counterclaims against the Company seeking unspecified monetary damages and alleging that certain additional marketing materials used by the Company contained false or misleading statements. The Company believes the counterclaims brought by Appian against the Company are without merit, and the Company intends to vigorously pursue its claims against Appian and defend against the counterclaims brought against the Company in this matter. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate possible damages or a range of possible damages in this matter given the Companys belief that the damages claimed by Appian fail to satisfy the required legal standard, the status of the proceeding, and due to the uncertainty as to how a jury may rule if this ultimately proceeds to trial. Appian Corp. v. Pegasystems Inc. & Youyong Zou On May 29, 2020, Appian sued the Company and an individual, Youyong Zou, in the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, Virginia in a matter titled Appian Corp. v. Pegasystems Inc. & Youyong Zou , No. 2020-07216 (Fairfax Cty. Ct.). The complaint filed by Appian on May 29, 2020 (the 2020 Complaint) alleges that Mr. Zou was an employee of an Appian business partner, Serco Inc. (Serco); that, as a result, Mr. Zou had access to Appian trade secrets which Mr. Zou was required to keep confidential; and that in approximately 2013, while Mr. Zou was employed by Serco, the Company engaged Mr. Zou through an intermediary to provide the Company with Appian trade secrets and confidential information, which the Company is then claimed to have used to compete against Appian. The 2020 Complaint sets forth claims for misappropriation of trade secrets under the Virginia Uniform Trade Secrets Act, violation of the Virginia Computer Crimes Act, tortious interference with contract and business expectancy, and statutory and common law conspiracy. On July 24, 2020, the Company filed a plea in bar, seeking to have the claims asserted against the Company in the 2020 Complaint barred, in whole or in part, by the applicable statutes of limitations. Before the original plea in bar could be heard, Appian filed an amended complaint which the court allowed on November 4, 2021 (the 2021 Amended Complaint), alleging that, in the 2019 time frame, employees of the Company accessed free Appian product trials under false pretenses. The 2021 Amended Complaint withdrew the claim for tortious interference with contract. After Appian filed the 2021 Amended Complaint, the Company successfully moved to dismiss Appians conspiracy claims, which are no longer a part of the case. The Company also re-filed a plea in bar on November 29, 2021 seeking to have the claims asserted against the Company in the 2021 Amended Complaint barred, in whole or in part, by the applicable statutes of limitations. A jury hearing on the plea in bar commenced on January 31, 2022. On February 9, 2022, the judge determined that he could decide the plea in bar without the jury and, on February 10, 2022, the judge entered a verdict granting the relief sought by the Companys plea in bar motion with respect to the Virginia Computer Crimes Act, meaning the allegations asserted against the Company in the 2021 Amended Complaint with respect to the Virginia Computer Crimes Act are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations for conduct on or prior to May 29, 2015, while the claims made with respect to misappropriation of trade secrets under the Virginia Uniform Trade Secrets Act are not similarly barred. Appians claim for tortious interference with business expectancy was not a subject of the plea in bar. On February 11, 2022, the court allowed Appians motion to further amend the 2021 Amended Complaint to assert a damages claim of approximately $3 billion, seeking all of the Companys revenues less estimated direct costs from the sale of all of the Companys products and services in the period from the fourth quarter of 2013 through the third quarter of 2021. Virginia law requires that the plaintiff establish proximate cause between any alleged use of the alleged trade secrets and damages incurred by the plaintiff, and also requires plaintiffs seeking damages to allege a specific damages amount, prohibiting recovery beyond that amount. In addition to disputing the validity of Appians claims against the Company, the Company believes that any alleged damages claimed by Appian are not supported by the necessary legal standard of proximate cause. In addition, following the February 10, 2022 ruling on the Companys plea in bar, the ongoing claim under the Virginia Computer Crimes Act is time limited to acts occurring after May 29, 2015. A jury trial with respect to the merits of the dispute is scheduled to begin on March 21, 2022. The Company believes the claims brought by Appian against the Company are without merit, that the Company has strong defenses to these claims and that, among other things, even were the jury to find that the Company misappropriated Appians alleged trade secrets, any alleged damages claimed by Appian are not supported by the necessary legal standard of proximate cause. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate possible damages or a range of possible damages given the Companys belief that the damages claimed by Appian fail to satisfy the required legal standard and due to the uncertainty as to how a jury may rule. 23 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PEGA. Holders As of February 4, 2022, we had 52 stockholders of record. Dividends During 2021, 2020, and 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share of common stock. We currently expect to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share, however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify this dividend program at any time without prior notice. Issuer purchases of equity securities (1) Common stock repurchased in the three months ended December 31, 2021: (in thousands, except per share amounts) Total Number of Shares Purchased (2) Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Share Repurchase Program Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased at Period End Under Publicly Announced Share Repurchased Programs October 1, 2021 - October 31, 2021 54 $ 126.55 33 $ 39,806 November 1, 2021 - November 30, 2021 93 $ 119.18 43 $ 34,724 December 1, 2021 - December 31, 2021 204 $ 110.93 109 $ 22,583 Total 351 $ 115.52 (1) See "Stock repurchase program" in Item 7 of this Annual Report for additional information. (2) Shares withheld to cover the option exercise price and tax withholding obligations under the net settlement provisions of our stock compensation awards have been included in these amounts. 25 Stock performance graph and cumulative total stockholder return (1) The following performance graph represents a comparison of the cumulative total stockholder return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, for a $100 investment on December 31, 2016 in our common stock, the Total Return Index for the NASDAQ Composite, a broad market index, and the Standard & Poors (S&P) North American Technology Sector - Software Index (S&P NA Tech Software), a published industry index. December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Pegasystems Inc. $ 100.00 $ 131.28 $ 133.46 $ 222.63 $ 372.92 $ 313.23 NASDAQ Composite $ 100.00 $ 129.64 $ 125.96 $ 172.18 $ 249.51 $ 304.85 S&P NA Tech Software $ 100.00 $ 142.80 $ 160.85 $ 216.49 $ 328.85 $ 379.14 (1) The graph lines merely connect measurement dates and do not reflect fluctuations between those dates. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BUSINESS OVERVIEW We develop, market, license, host, and support enterprise software that helps organizations simplify business complexity. Our powerful low-code platform for workflow automation and AI-powered decisioning enables the worlds leading brands and government agencies to hyper-personalize customer experiences, streamline customer service, and automate mission-critical business processes and workflows. With Pega, our clients can leverage our intelligent technology and scalable architecture to accelerate their digital transformation. Our client success teams, world-class partners, and clients themselves leverage our Pega Express methodology to design and deploy mission-critical applications quickly and collaboratively. Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require solutions to distinguish themselves in the markets they serve. Our solutions achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. Along with our partners, we deliver solutions tailored to our clients specific industry needs. 26 Subscription transition We are transitioning our business to sell software primarily through subscription arrangements. Until we fully complete our subscription transition, which we expect will occur in 2023, our revenue and operating cash flow growth may be impacted. Operating performance and the actual mix of revenue and new arrangements in each period can fluctuate based on client preferences for our perpetual and subscription offerings. See risk factor "If we fail to manage our transition to a more subscription-based business model successfully, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted" in Item 1A of this Annual Report for additional information. Coronavirus (COVID-19) As of December 31, 2021, COVID-19 has not had a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Performance metrics We use performance metrics to analyze and assess our overall performance, make operating decisions, and forecast and plan for future periods, including: Annual contract value (ACV) | Increased 20% since December 31, 2020 ACV represents the annualized value of our active contracts as of the measurement date. The contract's total value is divided by its duration in years to calculate ACV for term license and Pega Cloud contracts. Maintenance revenue for the quarter then ended is multiplied by four to calculate ACV for maintenance. ACV is a performance measure that we believe provides useful information to our management and investors, particularly during our subscription transition. Foreign currency exchange rate changes were a 1% headwind to ACV growth in 2021. 27 Remaining performance obligations (Backlog) | Increased 25% since December 31, 2020 Expected future revenue from existing non-cancellable contracts: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue Subscription transition We are transitioning our business to sell software primarily through subscription arrangements. This transition has impacted revenue growth as revenue is recognized differently for subscription services than for license sales. Revenue from Pega Cloud and maintenance arrangements is typically recognized over the contract term, while revenue from license sales is recognized when the license rights become effective, typically upfront. (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Pega Cloud $ 300,966 25 % $ 208,268 20 % $ 92,698 45 % Maintenance 320,257 26 % 296,709 30 % 23,548 8 % Subscription services 621,223 51 % 504,977 50 % 116,246 23 % Subscription license (A) 336,248 28 % 266,352 26 % 69,896 26 % Subscription 957,471 79 % 771,329 76 % 186,142 24 % Perpetual license 32,172 3 % 28,558 3 % 3,614 13 % Consulting 222,010 18 % 217,630 21 % 4,380 2 % $ 1,211,653 100 % $ 1,017,517 100 % $ 194,136 19 % (A) Revenue from term licenses. The change in revenue in 2021 generally reflects the impact of our subscription transition. Additional contributing factors were: An increasing portion of our term license contracts include multi-year committed maintenance periods instead of annually renewable maintenance. Under multi-year committed maintenance arrangements, a larger portion of the total contract value is recognized as maintenance revenue over the contract term rather than upon the effectiveness of the license rights as subscription license revenue. In 2021, multi-year committed maintenance contributed $17.1 million to maintenance revenue growth and reduced subscription license revenue growth by $4.0 million. Maintenance renewal rates remained over 90% in 2021. The increase in perpetual revenue was primarily due to license rights becoming effective in 2021 related to several large software license contracts entered into in prior years. The increase in consulting revenue in 2021 was primarily due to an increase in billable hours, which offset the impact of reduced billable travel expenses due to COVID-19. As part of our long-term strategy, we intend to continue growing and increasingly leveraging our ecosystem of partners on future implementation projects, potentially reducing our future consulting revenue growth rate. 28 Gross profit (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Pega Cloud $ 202,171 67 % $ 131,693 63 % $ 70,478 54 % Maintenance 298,606 93 % 274,398 92 % 24,208 9 % Subscription services 500,777 81 % 406,091 80 % 94,686 23 % Subscription license 333,859 99 % 263,708 99 % 70,151 27 % Subscription 834,636 87 % 669,799 87 % 164,837 25 % Perpetual license 31,943 99 % 28,274 99 % 3,669 13 % Consulting 8,711 4 % 8,531 4 % 180 2 % $ 875,290 72 % $ 706,604 69 % $ 168,686 24 % The increase in gross profit in 2021 was primarily due to overall revenue growth and cost-efficiency gains as Pega Cloud grows and scales because of our subscription transition. Operating expenses 2021 2020 Change (Dollars in thousands) % of Revenue % of Revenue Selling and marketing $ 625,886 52 % $ 545,693 54 % $ 80,193 15 % Research and development $ 260,630 22 % $ 236,986 23 % $ 23,644 10 % General and administrative $ 83,506 7 % $ 67,452 7 % $ 16,054 24 % The increase in selling and marketing in 2021 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $82.7 million, attributable to increases in headcount and incentive compensation. The increase in headcount reflects our efforts to increase our sales capacity to deepen relationships with existing clients and target new accounts. The increase in research and development in 2021 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $24.8 million, attributable to increases in headcount and incentive compensation. The increase in headcount reflects additional investments in the development of our solutions, particularly for Pega Cloud. The increase in general and administrative in 2021 was primarily due to an increase of $14.4 million in legal fees and related expenses arising from proceedings that originated outside of the ordinary course of business. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses for these proceedings in 2022. See "Note 19. Commitments And Contingencies" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. In February 2021, we agreed to accelerate our exit from our prior Cambridge, Massachusetts headquarters to October 1, 2021, in exchange for a one-time payment from our landlord of $18 million. This agreement was the primary contributor to decreases in facilities expenses of $5.1 million in selling and marketing, $5.6 million in research and development, and $2.7 million in general and administrative, in 2021. Other income and expenses (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Foreign currency transaction (loss) gain $ (6,459) $ 3,704 $ (10,163) * Interest income 704 1,223 (519) (42) % Interest expense (7,956) (19,356) 11,400 59 % (Loss) gain on capped call transactions (23,633) 31,697 (55,330) * Other income, net 89 1,370 (1,281) (94) % $ (37,255) $ 18,638 $ (55,893) * * not meaningful The change in foreign currency transaction (loss) gain in 2021 was primarily due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with our foreign currency-denominated cash, receivables, and intercompany balances held by our subsidiary in the United Kingdom. The decrease in interest income in 2021 was primarily due to declines in market interest rates and invested funds. The decrease in interest expense in 2021 was primarily due to our adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. See "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. 29 Interest expense related to the Notes: (in thousands) 2021 2020 Change Contractual interest expense (0.75% coupon) $ 4,500 $ 3,825 $ 675 Amortization of debt discount 12,898 (12,898) Amortization of issuance costs 2,977 1,915 1,062 $ 7,477 $ 18,638 $ (11,161) The decrease in the (loss) gain on capped call transactions in 2021 was due to fair value adjustments on the Capped Call Transactions. See "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. The decrease in other income, net in 2021 was due to a smaller gain from our venture investments portfolio in 2021. (Benefit from) income taxes (Dollars in thousands) 2021 2020 (Benefit from) income taxes $ (68,947) $ (63,516) Effective income tax benefit rate 52 % 51 % During 2021, the change in our effective income tax benefit rate was primarily due to the impact of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and changes in statutory tax rates applicable to our U.K.-based deferred tax assets. See "Note 17. Income Taxes" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Stock-based compensation increases the variability of our effective tax rates. The impact on our effective tax rate in each period depends on our profitability and the tax deductions from our stock compensation activity, which depend upon our stock price and the award holders' exercise behavior. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (in thousands) 2021 2020 Cash (used in) provided by Operating activities $ 39,118 $ (563) Investing activities 72,503 (321,683) Financing activities (121,843) 423,448 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (1,712) 2,334 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (11,934) $ 103,536 December 31, (in thousands) 2021 2020 Held in U.S. entities $ 274,813 $ 399,138 Held in foreign entities 87,966 66,030 Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 362,779 $ 465,168 We believe that our current cash, cash flow from operations, and borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our operations, stock repurchases, and quarterly cash dividends for at least the next 12 months and to meet our known long-term cash requirements. Whether these resources are adequate to meet our liquidity needs beyond that period will depend on our future growth, operating results, and the investments needed to support our operations. If we require additional capital resources, we may utilize available funds or additional external financing. If it becomes necessary to repatriate foreign funds, we may have to pay U.S. and foreign taxes upon repatriation. Due to the complexity of income tax laws and regulations, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of taxes we would have to pay. See risk factor "If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate any of our foreign cash balances to the United States, we may be subject to increased taxes, other restrictions, and limitations" in Item 1A of this Annual Report for additional information. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities We are transitioning our business to sell software primarily through subscription arrangements. This transition has impacted and is expected to continue impacting our billings and cash collections, as the timing of billings and cash collections generally differs between our subscription and perpetual license arrangements. Subscription license and services are generally billed and collected over the contract term, while perpetual license arrangements usually are billed and collected upfront when the license rights become effective. The change in cash provided by (used in) operating activities in 2021 was primarily due to a significant increase in client collections. In addition, in 2021 we incurred $18.2 million in legal fees and related expenses arising from proceedings that originated outside of the ordinary course of business. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses for these proceedings in 2022. See "Note 19. Commitments And Contingencies" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. 30 Corporate headquarters In February 2021, we agreed to accelerate our exit from our previous corporate headquarters to October 1, 2021, in exchange for a one-time payment from our landlord of $18 million, which was received in October 2021. The accelerated exit from this lease reduced our future lease liabilities by $21.1 million. On March 31, 2021 we leased office space at One Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts, to serve as our corporate headquarters. The 4.5 year lease includes a base rent of $2 million per year. New Waltham Office On July 6, 2021, we entered into an office space lease for 131 thousand square feet in Waltham, Massachusetts. The lease term of 11 years began on August 1, 2021. The annual rent equals the base rent plus a portion of building operating costs and real estate taxes. Rent first becomes payable on August 1, 2022. Base rent for the first year is approximately $6 million and will increase by 3% annually. In addition, we will receive an improvement allowance from the landlord of up to $11.8 million. This lease increased our lease liabilities and lease-related right of use assets by $42.1 million on August 1, 2021. Investing activities The change in cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2021 was primarily driven by investments in financial instruments, an acquisition, and a decrease in office space related capital expenditures. Financing activities Debt financing In February 2020, we issued $600 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes which mature on March 1, 2025. (in thousands) Amount Principal $ 600,000 Less: issuance costs (14,527) Less: Capped Call Transactions (51,900) $ 533,573 In November 2019, and as amended as of February 2020, July 2020, and September 2020, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement with PNC Bank, National Association. As of December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. See "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. Stock repurchase program Changes in the remaining stock repurchase authority: (in thousands) 2021 December 31, 2020 $ 37,726 Authorizations (1) 38,467 Repurchases (2) (53,610) December 31, 2021 $ 22,583 (1) On June 8, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors extended the current stock repurchase programs expiration date to June 30, 2022 and increased the remaining common stock repurchase authority to $60 million. (2) Purchases under this program have been made on the open market. Common stock repurchases 2021 2020 (in thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Repurchases paid 422 $ 52,411 276 $ 27,974 Repurchases unpaid at period end 10 1,199 2 300 Stock repurchase program 432 53,610 278 28,274 Tax withholdings for net settlement of equity awards 550 69,925 725 75,560 982 $ 123,535 1,003 $ 103,834 During 2021 and 2020, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $56.1 million and $59.6 million, respectively, for the exercise price of options. These amounts have been excluded from the table above. 31 Dividends (in thousands) 2021 2020 Dividend payments to stockholders $ 9,761 $ 9,628 We intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share. However, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program at any time without prior notice. Contractual obligations As of December 31, 2021, our contractual obligations were: Payments due by period (in thousands) 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 and thereafter Other Total Convertible senior notes (1) $ 4,500 $ 4,500 $ 4,500 $ 602,250 $ $ $ 615,750 Purchase obligations (2) 102,452 11,989 2,569 479 117,489 Operating lease obligations 8,942 17,705 16,411 13,553 58,298 114,909 Liability for uncertain tax positions (3) 1,690 1,690 $ 115,894 $ 34,194 $ 23,480 $ 616,282 $ 58,298 $ 1,690 $ 849,838 (1) Includes principal and interest. (2) Represents the fixed or minimum amounts due under purchase obligations for hosting services and sales and marketing programs. (3) We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of the cash outflow due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. A detailed discussion and analysis of the 2020 year-over-year changes can be found in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS Managements discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for annual financial reporting. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and beliefs of what could occur in the future, given the available information. We believe that, of our significant accounting policies, described in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 of this Annual Report, the following accounting policies are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and require the most subjective judgment. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If actual results differ significantly from managements estimates and projections, there could be a material effect on our financial statements. Revenue recognition Our client contracts typically contain promises by us to provide multiple products and services. Specifically, contracts associated with Pega Platform sales and other software applications, sold either as licenses to use functional intellectual property or as a cloud-based solution, typically include consulting services. Determining whether such products and services within a client contract are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. We review client contracts to identify all separate promises to transfer goods and services that would be considered performance obligations. Judgment is also required in determining whether an option to acquire additional products and services within a client contract represents a material right that the client would not receive without entering into that contract. A contract modification is a legally binding change to the scope, price, or both of an existing contract. Contract modifications are reviewed to determine whether they should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. This determination requires significant judgment, which could impact the timing of revenue recognition. We typically account for contract modifications prospectively as a separate contract. The additional performance obligation(s) in our contract modifications are generally distinct and priced at their stand-alone selling price. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations, including options in contracts determined to represent a material right, based on each performance obligation's relative stand-alone selling price. Judgment is required in estimating stand-alone selling prices. We maximize the use of observable inputs by maintaining pricing analyses that consider our pricing policies, historical stand-alone sales when they exist, and historical renewal prices charged to clients. We have concluded that the stand-alone selling prices of certain performance obligations, specifically software licenses and Pega Cloud arrangements, are highly variable. In these instances, we estimate the stand-alone selling prices using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract. We update our stand-alone selling price analysis periodically, including a re-assessment of whether the residual approach used to determine the stand-alone selling prices for software licenses and Pega Cloud arrangements remains appropriate. 32 Changes in the assumptions or judgments used in determining the performance obligations in client contracts and stand-alone selling prices could significantly impact the timing and amount of revenue we report in a particular period. Goodwill and intangible assets impairment Our goodwill and intangible assets result from our previous business acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually or as circumstances indicate their value may no longer be recoverable. We do not carry any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30th. To assess if goodwill is impaired, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. If based on the qualitative assessment, we consider it more-likely-than-not that our reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we perform a quantitative impairment test. An excess of carrying value over fair value would indicate that goodwill may be impaired. We periodically reevaluate our business and have determined that we have one operating segment and one reporting unit. If our assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges to reduce our goodwill's carrying value. Changes in the valuation of goodwill could materially impact our operating results and financial position. We evaluate our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such assets' carrying amount may not be recoverable. In evaluating potential impairment of these assets, we specifically consider whether any indicators of impairment are present, including, but not limited to: whether there has been a significant adverse change in the business climate that affects the value of an asset; whether there has been a significant change in the extent or way an asset is used; and whether it is expected that the asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its originally estimated useful life. If indicators of impairment are present, we compare the estimated undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate to the carrying value. The key assumptions of the cash flow model involve significant subjectivity. If such assets are impaired, an impairment is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. As of December 31, 2021, we had $81.9 million of goodwill and $14.1 million of intangible assets. Changes in the valuation of long-lived assets could materially impact our operating results and financial position. To date, there have been no impairments of goodwill or intangible assets. Accounting for income taxes Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in applying accounting principles and complex tax laws. Changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact our financial statements. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Future realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on sufficient taxable income within the available carryback or carryforward periods. Changes in our valuation allowance impact income tax expense in the period of adjustment. Our deferred tax valuation allowance requires significant judgment and uncertainties, including assumptions about future taxable income based on historical and projected information. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we consider all available objective and verifiable negative and positive evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, our firm contractual backlog, projected future taxable income (inclusive of the impact of enacted legislation), tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. Based on our firm contractual backlog and our current projections of taxable income, we determined that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize our net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2021. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized in the financial statements. As a global company, we use significant judgment to calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations undertaken whose ultimate tax outcome cannot be certain. Some of these uncertainties arise due to transfer pricing for transactions with our subsidiaries, the determination of tax nexus, and tax credit estimates. In addition, the calculation of acquired tax attributes and the associated limitations are complex. We estimate our exposure to unfavorable outcomes related to these uncertainties and estimate the probability of such outcomes. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no guarantee can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, returns, and accruals. Such differences, or changes in estimates relating to potential differences, could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such a determination is made. See "Note 17. Income Taxes" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information. 33 Capped call transactions In February 2020, we issued Convertible Senior Notes (the "Notes") with an aggregate principal amount of $600 million, due March 1, 2025, in a private placement. We also entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions (Capped Call Transactions) with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions cover 4.4 million shares (representing the number of shares for which the Notes are initially convertible) of our common stock and are generally expected to reduce potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. The Capped Call Transactions are accounted for as derivative instruments and do not qualify for the Companys own equity scope exception in ASC 815 since, in some cases of early settlement, the settlement value of the Capped Call Transactions, calculated following the governing documents, may not represent a fair value measurement. Applying the accounting framework for the Capped Call Transactions requires the exercise of judgment and the determination of the fair value of the Capped Call Transactions requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. The fair value of the Capped Call Transactions at the end of each reporting period is determined using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The valuation models use various market-based inputs, including stock price, remaining contractual term, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. Management applies judgment when determining expected volatility. We consider both historical and implied volatility levels of the underlying equity security. As of December 31, 2021, a hypothetical 10% increase in our stock price would have increased the fair value of the capped call to $72.4 million, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in our stock price would have decreased the fair value of the capped call to $47.8 million. See "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies", "Note 11. Debt", and "Note 13. Fair Value Measurements" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information.