Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. We expect that we will continue to commit significant resources to our product research and development in the future to maintain our leadership position. Employees As of January 31, 2015, we had 2,970 employees worldwide, of which 1,313 were based in North America, 617 were based in Europe, and 1,040 were based in Asia Pacific. Backlog of license, maintenance, and services As of December 31, 2014, we had software license, maintenance, Cloud, and services agreements with clients expected to result in approximately $540.3 million of future revenue, of which we expect approximately $315.3 million to be recognized in 2015. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $505.9 million in backlog of client software license, maintenance, Cloud, and services agreements. Under some of these agreements, we must fulfill certain conditions prior to recognizing revenue, and there can be no assurance when, if ever, we will be able to satisfy all such conditions in each instance. Backlog may vary in any given period depending on the amount and timing of when arrangements are executed, as well as the mix between perpetual and term license arrangements. Business conditions could change and, therefore, backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future financial performance. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more detail regarding backlog. Available Information We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, free of charge through our Website ( www.pega.com/about-us/investors ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains a Website that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We make available on our Website reports filed by our executive officers and Directors on Forms 3, 4, and 5 regarding their ownership of our securities. Our Code of Conduct, and any amendments to our Code of Conduct, is also available on our Website. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere by management from time to time. Factors relating to our financial results The timing of our license revenue is difficult to predict accurately, which may cause our quarterly operating results to vary considerably. A change in the number or size of high value license arrangements, or a change in the mix between perpetual licenses, term licenses, and Pega Cloud subscriptions can cause our revenues to fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter. In the event that our clients choose term licenses or Pega Cloud subscriptions, we recognize the revenue over the license term or Pega Cloud subscription term, which may adversely affect our profitability in any period due to sales commissions being paid at the time of signing and the corresponding revenue being recognized over time. Other factors which may influence the predictability of our license revenue include: changes in customer budgets and decision making processes that could affect both the timing and size of transactions, the deferral of license revenue to future periods due to the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products or services, changes in our business model, and/or our ability to execute on our marketing and sales strategies. We budget for our selling and marketing, product development, and other expenses based on anticipated future revenue. If the timing or amount of revenue fails to meet our expectations in any given quarter, our financial performance is likely to be adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. If our revenues and operating results do not meet the expectations of our investors or securities analysts or fall below guidance we may provide to the market, or due to other factors discussed elsewhere in this section, the price of our common stock may decline. The number of our license arrangements has been increasing, and we may not be able to sustain this growth unless we and our partners can provide sufficient high quality consulting services, training, and maintenance resources to enable our clients to realize significant business value from our software. Our clients typically request consulting services and training to assist them in implementing our products. Our clients also purchase maintenance on our products in almost all cases. As a result, an increase in the number of license arrangements is likely to increase demand for consulting services, training, and maintenance relating to our products. Given that the number of our license arrangements has been increasing, we will need to provide our clients with more consulting services, training, and maintenance to enable our clients to realize significant business value from our software. We have been increasingly enabling our partners and clients through training to create an expanded universe of people that are skilled in the implementation of our products. However, if we and our partners are unable to provide sufficient high quality consulting services, training, or maintenance resources to our clients, our clients may not realize sufficient business value from our products to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. In addition, the growth required to meet the increased demand for our consulting services could strain our ability to deliver our services engagements at desired levels of profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. We frequently enter into a series of licenses that are focused on a specific purpose or area of operations. If we are not successful in obtaining follow-on business from these clients, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We frequently enter into a series of licenses with our new clients that are focused on a specific purpose or area of operations. Once a client has realized the value of our software, we work with the client to identify opportunities for follow-on sales. However, we may not be successful in demonstrating this value to some clients, for reasons relating to the performance of our products, the quality of the services and support we provide for our products, or external reasons. Also, certain of our smaller clients may have limited additional sales opportunities available. For any of these clients, we may not obtain follow-on sales or the follow-on sales may be delayed, and our license revenue could be limited. This could lower the total value of all transactions and adversely affect our financial performance. 9 Table of Contents Our consulting services revenue is dependent to a significant extent on closing new license transactions with clients. We derive a substantial portion of our consulting services revenue from implementation of new software licenses with our clients, both from implementations that are led by our consulting services staff and from implementations where we provide consulting to our partners and clients to support their implementations. Accordingly, it is imperative that we close more license transactions with our clients if we are to maintain or grow our consulting services revenue. If we are unable to maintain vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of our time and materials (T&M) consulting services arrangements, we may be required to delay the recognition of a portion of our revenue to future periods . We have established VSOE of fair value of our T&M consulting services in North America, Australia, and Europe, based on the price charged when these services are sold separately. The weakened economy and significant competition within our industry have created pricing pressure on consulting services provided by technology companies. If we elect to discount our T&M consulting services pricing or otherwise introduce variability in our T&M consulting services arrangements to attract or retain clients, this could lead to an insufficient number of consistently priced T&M consulting services arrangements for us to maintain VSOE. If we do not have VSOE of fair value of our T&M consulting services, we may be required to recognize all revenue for these consulting services arrangements, including any bundled license, maintenance, and other services revenue, ratably over the longer of the software maintenance period or the service period. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are required to change certain estimates, judgments, and/or positions relative to our income and other taxes. In the ordinary course of conducting our global business enterprise, we cannot be certain of the ultimate tax outcome related to many transactions and calculations. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of positions we have taken regarding valuation of deferred tax assets, transfer pricing for transactions with our subsidiaries, and potential challenges to nexus and tax credit estimates. We estimate our exposure to unfavorable outcomes related to these uncertainties and estimate the probability of such outcomes. Future realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income within the available carryback or carryforward periods. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. If our taxable income is not consistent with our expectations or the timing of income is not within the applicable carryforward period, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance on all or a portion of these deferred tax assets. Changes in our valuation allowance impact income tax expense in the period of adjustment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters or our current estimates regarding these matters will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, returns, and accruals. Such differences, or changes in estimates relating to potential differences, could have a material impact, unfavorable or favorable, on our income tax provisions, require us to change the recorded value of deferred tax assets, and adversely affect our financial results. We are also subject to non-income taxes such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If it became necessary to repatriate any of our foreign cash balances to the United States, we may be subject to increased income taxes, other restrictions, and limitations. As of December 31, 2014, approximately $46.8 million of our cash and cash equivalents is held in our foreign subsidiaries. If we are unable to reinvest this cash outside of the U.S., we may have to repatriate some of our foreign cash to the U.S. which would increase our income tax liability. If it became necessary to repatriate these funds, we may be required to pay U.S. tax, net of any applicable foreign tax credits, upon repatriation. We consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested and, as a result, U.S. taxes on such earnings have not been provided. It is impractical to estimate the amount of U.S. tax we could have to pay upon repatriation due to the complexity of the foreign tax credit calculations and other factors. 10 Table of Contents We are investing heavily in sales and marketing and support in anticipation of a continued increase in license arrangements, and we may experience decreased profitability or losses if we are unsuccessful in increasing the value of our license arrangements in the future to balance our growth in expenses. We have been increasing our investment in sales and marketing to meet increasing demand for our software by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel. We anticipate that we will need to provide our clients with more maintenance support as a result of this increase in demand, and also have been hiring additional personnel in this area. These investments have resulted in increased fixed costs that do not vary with the level of revenue. If the increased demand for our products does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses as a result of these increased fixed costs. Factors relating to our products and markets We will need to acquire or develop new products, evolve existing ones, address any defects or errors, and adapt to technology change . Technical developments, client requirements, programming languages, and industry standards change frequently in our markets. As a result, success in current markets and new markets will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, address any product defects or errors, acquire or develop and introduce new products that meet client needs, keep pace with technology changes, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement, and testing. We may not have sufficient resources to make necessary product development investments. We may experience technical or other difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, or implementation of new or enhanced products. We may also experience technical or other difficulties in the integration of acquired technologies into our existing platform and applications. Inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share if competitors are able to provide solutions to meet customer needs before we do, give rise to unanticipated expenses related to further development or modification of acquired technologies as a result of integration issues, and adversely affect future financial performance. The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented. We compete in the CRM, which includes marketing, sales, and customer service, BPM, Case Management, Decision Management, co-browsing, social engagement, and mobile application development platform software markets, as well as markets for the vertical applications we provide (e.g. KYC for Financial Services, Pharmacovigilance for Life Sciences). The markets for our software and related implementation, consulting, and training services are intensely competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented. We currently encounter significant competition from internal information systems departments of potential or existing clients that develop custom software. We also compete with companies that target the BPM, Case Management, Decision Management, co-browsing, social engagement, and mobile application development platform markets as well as professional service organizations that develop custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services. Competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions are likely to increase. Many of our competitors, such as IBM, Oracle, and SAP, are large and have far greater resources and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new or emerging technologies, programming languages, or standards or to changes in client requirements or preferences. Competitors may also be able to devote greater managerial and financial resources to develop, promote, and distribute products and to provide related consulting and training services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by us will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued weakness in international economies may negatively impact our sales to, and the collection of receivables from, our financial services and, insurance clients and possibly our clients in other industries. Our sales to, and our collection of receivables from, our clients may be impacted by adverse changes in global economic conditions. In the past few years, the regions which we serve have experienced instability in financial markets, tightening credit, and weak overall economic conditions, which has impacted the financial services and insurance industries in particular. These trends could impact the ability and willingness of our 11 Table of Contents financial services and insurance clients, and possibly our clients in other industries, to make investments in technology, which in turn may delay or reduce the number of purchases of our software and services. These factors could also impact the ability and willingness of these clients to pay their trade obligations and honor their contractual commitments under their noncancellable term licenses. These clients may also become subject to increasingly restrictive regulatory requirements, which could limit or delay their ability to proceed with new technology purchases and may result in longer sales cycles, increased price competition, and reductions in sales of our products and services. Our financial services and insurance clients as a group represent a significant amount of our revenues and receivables. Accordingly, their potential financial instability could negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have historically sold to the financial services, insurance, healthcare, and communications markets, and rapid changes or consolidation in these markets could affect the level of demand for our products. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from clients in the financial services, insurance, healthcare, and communications markets, and sales to these markets are important for our future growth. Competitive pressures, industry consolidation, decreasing operating margins, regulatory changes, and privacy concerns affect the financial condition of our clients and their willingness to buy. In addition, clients purchasing patterns in these industries for large technology projects are somewhat discretionary. The financial services and insurance markets are undergoing intense domestic and international consolidation and financial turmoil, and consolidation has been occurring in the healthcare and communications markets. Consolidation may interrupt normal buying behaviors and increase the volatility of our operating results. In recent years, several of our clients have been merged or consolidated, and we expect this to continue in the near future. Future mergers or consolidations may cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect our future financial performance. All of these factors affect the level of demand for our products from clients in these industries, and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on certain third-party relationships. We have a number of relationships with third parties that are significant to sales, marketing and support activities, and to product development efforts, including Cloud hosting facilities. We rely on software and hardware vendors, large system integrators, and technology consulting firms to provide marketing and sales opportunities for the direct sales force and to strengthen our products through the use of industry-standard tools and utilities. We also have relationships with third parties that distribute our products. There can be no assurance that these companies, most of which have significantly greater financial and marketing resources, will not develop or market products that compete with ours in the future or will not otherwise end or limit their relationships with us. Further, the use of third-party hosting facilities requires us to rely on data security as it is provided by such third parties, which despite our due diligence may be less than adequate. We face risks from operations and clients based outside of the U.S. Sales to clients located outside of the U.S. represented approximately 45% of our total revenue in the last three fiscal years. We, in part through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, market products and render consulting and training services to clients based outside of the U.S. including clients based in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, Asia, and Australia. We have established offices in North America, Europe (including Russia and Turkey), Asia (including India), and Australia. We believe that growth will necessitate expanded international operations, requiring a diversion of managerial attention and increased costs. We anticipate hiring additional personnel to accommodate international growth, and we may also enter into agreements with local distributors, representatives, or resellers. If we are unable to do one or more of these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in our foreign operations may be restricted, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include: laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data privacy and protection laws and regulations, increased tariffs and other trade barriers; 12 Table of Contents the costs of localizing products for local markets, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; longer payment cycles and credit and collectability risk on our foreign trade receivables; difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; heightened fraud and anti-bribery awareness risks; treatment of revenue from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws, being liable for paying withholding income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions, and other potentially adverse tax consequences (including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of double taxation); managing our international operations, including increased accounting and internal control expenses; heightened risks of political and economic instability; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and controls. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our foreign operations, and, consequentially, our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are usually denominated in foreign currencies. The operating expenses of our foreign operations are primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure on our international sales. Our U.S. operating company invoices most of our foreign clients in their local currencies, so it holds cash and accounts receivable denominated in these foreign currencies, which are subject to foreign currency transaction gains or losses. We have historically entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and cash held by our U.S. operating company. The use of these foreign currency forward contracts is intended to partially mitigate the exposure to the foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We are in the process of reassessing our hedging strategy and have not entered into any foreign currency forward contracts since February 2014. Although we may resume the use of foreign currency forward contracts in the future, amounts denominated in foreign currencies, particularly the British pound, Euro, Australian dollar, and Indian rupee relative to the U.S. dollar, may fluctuate in value and could adversely impact our financial results and cash flows. Factors relating to our internal operations and potential liabilities We depend on certain key personnel, and must be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The business is dependent on a number of key, highly skilled technical, managerial, consulting, sales, and marketing personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer who is also our founder and majority stockholder. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect financial performance. We do not have any significant key-man life insurance on any officers or employees and do not plan to obtain any. Our success will depend in large part on the ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and rapidly replace and ramp up new management. The number of potential employees who have the extensive knowledge of computer hardware and operating systems needed to develop, sell, and maintain our products is limited, and competition for their services is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to achieve the key elements of our strategy and grow our business as anticipated. We currently intend to grow our business by pursuing strategic initiatives. Key elements of our strategy include utilizing our network of partner alliances to support our growth strategies and developing the talent and organizational structure capable of supporting our growth targets. We may not be able to achieve one or more of our key initiatives. Our success depends on our ability to appropriately manage our expenses as we grow our organization; successfully execute our marketing and sales strategies; successfully incorporate acquired technologies into our unified Pega 7 platform; and develop new products or product enhancements. If we are not able to execute on these actions, our business may not grow as we anticipated, and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may experience significant errors or security flaws in our product and services, and could face privacy, product liability, and/or warranty claims as a result. Despite quality testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, or could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products. Additionally, the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors or security flaws in our software could result in the inadvertent disclosure of confidential information or personal data relating to our clients, employees, or third parties. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to privacy, product liability, and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Typically, we enter into license agreements that contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of product liability and warranty claims. There is a risk that a court might interpret these terms in a limited way or could hold part or all of these terms to be unenforceable. Also, there is a risk that these contract terms might not bind a party other than the direct client. Furthermore, some of our licenses with our clients are governed by non-U.S. law, and there is a risk that foreign law might give us less or different protection. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, a product liability suit or action claiming a breach of warranty, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and our resources. We face risks related to intellectual property claims or appropriation of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have obtained patents in strategically important global markets relating to the architecture of our systems. We cannot assure that such patents will not be invalidated or circumvented or that rights granted thereunder or the claims contained therein will provide us with competitive advantages. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. There can be no assurance that third parties, including clients, will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties, and also assert ownership of work product and intellectual property rights as appropriate, there are often exceptions, and we cannot be assured that limitations will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if limitations are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could be material in amount given the size of certain of our transactions. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment and delivery delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to increasingly complex and burdensome U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, data privacy, protection and security laws, and similar laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we do or intend to do business. Data privacy laws and regulations in Europe, Australia, Latin America and elsewhere are undergoing rapid transformation towards increased restrictions. We have developed and implemented a compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices, including the background checking of our major vendor and distribution partners and the creation of a data privacy center of excellence, but we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations, particularly as we expand our operations outside of the U.S. If we or our representatives fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regulation of data privacy, protection, and security laws is increasing worldwide, including various restrictions on cross-border access or transfer of data including personal data of our employees, clients and customers of our clients. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and there is a risk of enforcement of such laws resulting in damage to our brand as well as financial penalties, which could be significant. Security of our systems and of global customer data is a growing challenge on many fronts. Security breaches may expose us to significant legal and financial liabilities. Our security measures, and those of our clients, may be breached as a result of third-party action, or that of employees, consultants, or others, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, system error, human error, technical flaws in our products, or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have invested in the protection of our data and systems, and our clients data, to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breaches. Security breaches could expose us and our clients to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability, and negatively impact our future sales. We carry data breach insurance coverage to potentially mitigate the financial impact of such potential legal liability, though this may prove insufficient in the event of a major breach. Additionally, our Cloud computing service offering allows clients to create and deploy Pega 7-based applications using an Internet-based infrastructure. This offering involves the hosting of clients applications which may contain confidential information, including personal and financial data regarding their end customers, on the servers of a third-party technology provider. We also rely on third-party systems and technology including encryption, virtualized infrastructure, and support. Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients and our third-party technology providers, the processing of data on the servers of the third-party technology providers, or the internal controls maintained by the third-party technology providers that could prevent unauthorized access and provide appropriate data encryption, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions, data or processing. In addition, privacy and security concerns in some parts of the world may inhibit demand for our Cloud offering or lead to requirements to provide our products or services in configurations that may increase the cost of serving such markets. The acquisition of other businesses and technologies may present new risks. We have recently undertaken acquisitions and we continue to evaluate and consider other potential strategic transactions, including domestic and international acquisitions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. These acquisitions, if 15 Table of Contents undertaken, may involve significant new risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from our current business operations, insufficient new revenue to offset expenses, inadequate return on capital, integration challenges, new regulatory and/or legal requirements, new third-party intellectual property infringement claims related to the acquired technology and/or services, dilution of shareholder value, cross border legal issues, and issues not discovered in our due diligence process. No assurance can be given that such acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our profitability or operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 2. Properties Our principal administrative, sales, marketing, support, and research and development operations are located at One Rogers Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts in an approximately 163,000 square foot leased facility. Our lease expires in 2023, subject to our option to extend for two additional five-year periods. We also lease space for our other offices in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific under leases that expire at various dates through 2021. See Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our lease commitments. We periodically evaluate the adequacy of existing facilities and additional facilities in new cities, and we believe that additional or alternative space will be available as needed in the future on commercially reasonable terms. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings None. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Stock Split On March 6, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split of our common stock, effected in the form of a common stock dividend (the Stock Split). On April 1, 2014, each stockholder of record at the close of business on March 20, 2014 (the Record Date) received as a dividend, one additional share of common stock, par value $0.01, for each share of common stock held on the Record Date. The number of common shares and per share amounts for all prior periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been retroactively restated to reflect the Stock Split, except as otherwise noted. Market Information Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol PEGA. The following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices of our common stock on NASDAQ for each quarter in the years ended December 31: Common Stock Price (1) 2014 2013 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 24.85 $ 17.07 $ 15.18 $ 11.39 Second Quarter $ 21.79 $ 15.51 $ 16.78 $ 12.23 Third Quarter $ 23.38 $ 19.10 $ 20.28 $ 16.29 Fourth Quarter $ 21.95 $ 18.46 $ 25.77 $ 18.40 (1) The historical per share amounts presented above reflect the impact of the Stock Split. See Stock Split above. Holders As of February 5, 2015, we had approximately 25 stockholders of record and approximately 10,650 beneficial owners of our common stock. Dividends In July 2006, we began paying a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share of common stock. This represents $0.015 per share of common stock on a post-split basis. On May 27, 2014, we announced an increase in our quarterly common stock cash dividend to $0.03 per share. Quarterly cash dividends are expected to continue at $0.03 per share, subject to change or elimination at any time by our Board of Directors. 17 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information regarding our repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2014. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Share Repurchase Program (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased at Period End Under Publicly Announced Share Repurchased Programs (1) (in thousands) 10/1/2014 10/31/2014 59,692 $ 19.16 59,692 $ 980 11/1/2014 11/30/2014 29,433 $ 20.22 29,433 $ 14,795 12/1/2014 12/31/2014 72,603 $ 20.81 72,603 $ 13,284 Total 161,728 $ 20.09 (1) Since 2004, our Board of Directors has approved stock repurchase programs that have authorized the repurchase, in the aggregate, of up to $119 million of our common stock. On November 24, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors extended the expiration date of the current stock repurchase program (the Current Program) to December 31, 2015 and authorized us to repurchase up to $15 million of our stock between November 18, 2014 and December 31, 2015. Under the Current Program, purchases may be made from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Shares may be repurchased in such amounts as market conditions warrant, subject to regulatory and other considerations. We have established a pre-arranged stock repurchase plan, intended to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act (the 10b5-1 Plan). All share repurchases under the Current Program during closed trading window periods will be made pursuant to the 10b5-1 Plan. For the restricted stock units granted to employees, the number of shares otherwise issuable on the vesting date is reduced by a number of shares having a value equal to the minimum statutory income withholding tax that we are required to pay in cash to the applicable taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. We do not consider these transactions to be common stock repurchases. 18 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Stockholder Return The following performance graph represents a comparison of the cumulative total stockholder return (assuming the reinvestment of dividends) for a $100 investment on December 31, 2009 in our common stock, the Total Return Index for the NASDAQ Composite (NASDAQ Composite), a broad market index, and the Standard & Poors (S&P) North Software- Software Index (S&P NSSI), a published industry index. We paid dividends of $0.09 per share during 2014, $0.045 per share during 2013, $0.075 per share during 2012 and $0.06 per share during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The graph lines merely connect measurement dates and do not reflect fluctuations between those dates. 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 Pegasystems Inc. $100.00 $108.15 $87.08 $67.46 $146.76 $124.60 NASDAQ Composite $100.00 $118.02 $117.04 $137.47 $192.62 $221.02 S&P NSSI $100.00 $125.15 $116.57 $136.89 $179.47 $204.38 19 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data presented below has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. This data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Total revenue $ 590,004 $ 508,954 $ 461,710 $ 416,675 $ 336,599 Income (loss) from operations 51,539 58,097 31,426 10,494 (2,580 ) Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes 47,994 56,393 30,945 10,813 (6,197 ) Net income (loss) 33,255 38,043 21,868 10,108 (5,891 ) Earnings (loss) per share: Basic (1) $ 0.44 $ 0.50 $ 0.29 $ 0.13 $ (0.08 ) Diluted (1) $ 0.42 $ 0.49 $ 0.28 $ 0.13 $ (0.08 ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.105 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 (1) The number of common shares and per share amounts have been retroactively restated for all prior periods presented to reflect the two-for-one common stock split effected in the form of a common stock dividend distributed on April 1, 2014. See Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesStock Split of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the Stock Split. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 211,216 $ 156,692 $ 122,985 $ 111,432 $ 87,251 Working capital 163,448 157,823 123,885 89,716 73,606 Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization 45,664 56,574 58,232 69,369 80,684 Goodwill 46,860 43,469 20,451 20,451 20,451 Total assets 587,801 536,480 439,492 381,711 337,475 Total stockholders equity 294,705 271,788 236,479 208,756 195,670 The following items impact the comparability of our consolidated financial data: Our acquisition of Antenna in October 2013 and our acquisition of Chordiant in April 2010. Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains of $(3.8) million, $(1.6) million, $0.8 million, $(0.9) million, and $(5.6) million, during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. See