Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, along with other reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), external documents, and oral presentations, contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, will, could, should, estimates, may, targets, strategies, intends to, projects, forecasts, guidance, likely, and usually or variations of such words and other similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which represent our views only as of the date the statement was made and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking statements deal with future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: our future financial performance and business plans; the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources; the continued payment of our quarterly dividends; the timing of revenue recognition; variation in demand for our products and services, including among clients in the public sector; reliance on key personnel; reliance on third-party service providers, including hosting providers; compliance with our debt obligations and covenants; the potential impact of our convertible senior notes and capped call transactions; foreign currency exchange rates; the potential legal and financial liabilities and damage to our reputation due to cyber-attacks; security breaches and security flaws; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, costs associated with defending such rights, intellectual property rights claims, and other related claims by third parties against us, including related costs, damages, and other relief that may be granted against us; our ongoing litigation with Appian Corp.; our client retention rate; and management of our growth. These risks and others that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report and other filings we make with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, and there are no assurances that the results included in such statements will be achieved. Although subsequent events may cause our view to change, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report represent our views as of February 14, 2024. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business We develop, market, license, host, and support enterprise software that helps organizations build agility into their business so they can adapt to change. Our powerful, low-code platform for workflow automation and artificial intelligence-powered decisioning enables the worlds leading brands and government agencies to hyper-personalize customer experiences, streamline customer service, and automate mission-critical business processes and workflows. With Pega, our clients can leverage our artificial intelligence (AI) technology and scalable architecture to accelerate their digital transformation. In addition, our client success teams, world-class partners, and clients leverage our Pega Express methodology to design and deploy mission-critical applications quickly and collaboratively. To grow our business, we intend to: Increase market share by developing and delivering a low-code platform for workflow automation and AI-powered decisioning for buyers in marketing, sales, service, operations, and IT that can work together seamlessly with maximum competitive differentiation; Deepen and expand our relationships with existing clients; Establish relationships with new clients; and Continue to scale our marketing efforts to support how todays buyers discover, evaluate, and choose products and services. Whether we are successful depends, in part, on our ability to: Execute our marketing and sales strategies; Manage our expenses appropriately as we grow our organization; Develop new products and enhance our existing products; and Incorporate acquired technologies into our solutions and the unified Pega Platform. Our Products Pega Infinity Pega Infinity, the latest version of our software portfolio, helps build agility into our clients organizations so they can work smarter, unify experiences, and adapt to meet changing requirements. 4 Our applications and low-code platform intersect with and encompass several software markets, including: Customer Engagement, including Customer Relationship Management (CRM); Digital Process Automation (DPA), including Business Process Management (BPM), Workflow, and Dynamic Case Management (DCM); Low-code application development platforms (LCAP), including Multi-experience Development Platforms (MXDP); Robotic Process Automation (RPA); Business Rules Management Systems (BRMS); Decision Management, including predictive and adaptive analytics; and the Vertical-Specific Software (VSS) market of industry solutions and packaged applications. 1:1 Customer Engagement Our omnichannel customer engagement applications are designed to maximize the lifetime value of customers and help reduce the costs of serving customers while ensuring a consistent, unified, and personalized customer experience. At the center of our customer engagement applications is the Pega Customer Decision Hub, our real-time, AI-powered decision engine, which can predict a customers behavior and recommend the next best action to take across channels in real-time. It is designed to enable enterprises to improve customer acquisition and experience across inbound, outbound, and paid media channels. It incorporates artificial intelligence (AI) in the form of predictive and machine-learning analytics and business rules and executes these decisions in real-time to evaluate the context of each customer interaction and dynamically deliver the most relevant action, offer, content, and channel. Customer Service The Pega Customer Service application simplifies customer service. It is designed to anticipate customer needs, connect customers to the right people and systems, automate or intelligently guide customer interactions, rapidly and continuously evolve the customer service experience, and allow enterprises to deliver consistent interactions across channels and improve employee productivity. The application consists of a contact center desktop, case management for customer service, chat, knowledge management, mobile field service, omnichannel self-service, AI-powered virtual assistants, and industry-specific processes (Microjourney) and data models. For clients who want to extend intelligence and automation into the early stages of the customer journey, Pega Sales Automation automates and manages the entire sales process, from prospecting to product fulfillment. It allows enterprises to capture best practices and leverage AI to guide sales teams through the sales and customer onboarding processes. Intelligent Automation Pega Platform, our software for Intelligent Automation, boosts the efficiency of our clients processes and workflows. This technology allows organizations to take an end-to-end approach to transformation by using intelligence and design thinking to streamline processes and create better customer and employee experiences. Intelligent automation goes beyond traditional Business Process Management (BPM) to unify technologies such as Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and AI and enable organization-wide digital transformation. With its Intelligent Automation capabilities, the Pega Platform allows clients to break down silos, improve customer-centricity, add agility to legacy technology, and provide end-to-end automation to support the needs of customers and employees. Our Capabilities We drive better business outcomes for our clients in three ways: 1:1 Customer Engagement: we enable clients to hyper-personalize interactions with their customers using our AI-powered decision engine, resulting in higher customer lifetime value. Customer Service: we enable clients to streamline customer service and deliver better service experiences for their customers and employees, resulting in higher customer satisfaction and loyalty with reduced costs. Intelligent Automation: we enable clients to automate mission-critical workflows, resulting in improved operational efficiency, faster time to value, and lower cost. We deliver our solution through our Center-out Business Architecture, enabling clients to transcend channels and internal data silos to achieve quick wins and long-term transformation. This approach insulates business logic from back-end and front-end complexity, delivering consistent customer experiences and agility to the business. The key aspects of this architecture are: Centrally-managed AI-powered decisioning Pegas centrally-managed AI-powered decisioning ensures AI and business rules operate across all channels. Applications built on Pegas low-code Platform leverage predictive and adaptive analytics to deliver personalized customer experiences and maximize business objectives. For example, Pega Customer Decision Hub, a centralized, always-on customer brain, unleashes the power of predictive analytics, machine learning, and real-time decisioning across our clients data, systems, and touchpoints orchestrating engagement across customer interaction channels and optimizing processes for better efficiency. 5 End-to-end workflow automation aligned with business outcomes We combine human-assisted robotic desktop automation and unattended robotic process automation with our unified workflow automation and case management capabilities. This combination provides our platform and applications the differentiated ability to automate customer-facing and back-office operational processes from end to end, connecting across organizational and system silos to connect customers and employees to outcomes seamlessly and easily. Consistent omnichannel experiences With centrally defined business and process logic, Pega provides dynamic, open APIs to align front-end channels and business logic for consistent customer experiences. By leveraging innovative user interface (UI) technology, Pega-powered processes and decisions can be easily embedded into existing front ends or used as the basis for new employee-facing applications. Insulation of back-end complexity Pegas architecture insulates case and decision logic from the complexity of back-end systems. Our data virtualization automatically pulls in needed data in a common structure, regardless of source. This capability allows clients the agility to build new experiences on existing systems, modernizing legacy systems without breaking existing processes. A layered approach to managing variation Pegas Situational Layer Cake organizes logic into layers that map to the unique dimensions of a clients business customer types, lines of business, geographies, etc. This layered approach lets organizations manage variations of their businesses without duplicating logic. This capability allows initial deployments into a single department or region to seamlessly scale to manage the complexity of a global, multi-line enterprise. In addition to our Center-out Business Architecture, Pega technology has been designed to be deployed rapidly, be easily changed, and scale across changing architecture needs. Pega Express Methodology and low code Our solutions are designed to quickly improve targeted customer outcomes with out-of-the-box functionality that connects enterprise data and systems to customer experience channels. From there, organizations can scale one customer experience at a time to realize greater value while delivering increasingly consistent and personalized customer experiences. We prescribe a Microjourney approach to delivery that breaks customer journeys into discrete processes that drive meaningful outcomes, such as inquiring about a bill or updating an insurance policy, allowing us to combine design-thinking and out-of-the-box functionality to deliver rapid results and ensure the ability to enhance applications in the future. Our approach leverages low-code to improve business and IT collaboration and bypass the error-prone and time-consuming process of manually translating requirements into code. Users design software in low-code visual models that reflect the needs of the business. The software application is created and optimized automatically and directly from the model, helping to close the costly gap between vision and execution. Changes to the code are made by altering the model, and application documentation is generated directly from the model. Cloud choice Pega Cloud allows clients to develop, test, and deploy, on an accelerated basis, our applications and the Pega Platform using a secure, flexible internet-based infrastructure, minimizing cost while focusing on core revenue-generating competencies. Clients can also manage the Pega deployment themselves using the cloud architecture they prefer. This multi-cloud approach of both Pega Cloud and client-managed cloud gives our clients the ability to select and change, as needed, the best cloud architecture for the security, data access, speed-to-market, and budget requirements of each application they deploy. Our Services and Support We offer services and support through our Global Client Success, Global Service Assurance and Client Support, and PegaAcademy groups. We also use third-party contractors to assist us in providing these services. Global Client Success Global Client Success guides our clients to maximize their investment in our technology and realize the business outcomes they are targeting. Within Global Client Success, our Client Innovation team helps clients transform and prototype their customer journeys through our Pega Catalyst offering, our Success team ensures our clients receive the maximum business value from their Pega investments, and our Pega Consulting team provides planning, design, implementation, and assurance services. Global Service Assurance and Client Support Global Service Assurance addresses risks to client success because of technical concerns. By providing technical staff dedicated to client success, we reduce the time to resolve technical issues, eliminate lengthy deliberations of technical resource logistics, and increase clients confidence in our technology and client service. Global Client Support provides technical support for our products and services. Support services include cloud service reliability management, online support community management, self-service knowledge, proactive problem prevention through information and knowledge sharing, problem tracking, prioritization, escalation, diagnosis, and resolution. 6 Pega Academy Pega Academy offers enablement content for all Pega product implementations to ensure the success of our Clients and Partners. We have increased our ability to train partners and clients to implement our technology and made it easier for individuals to stay current as it evolves. We offer many mediums, including instructor-led and online training to our employees, clients, and partners so individuals can learn in the way that best suits them. We have also partnered with universities to provide our courseware as part of the student curriculum to expand our ecosystem of enablement content. In addition, we have robust and comprehensive documentation on our documentation portal, so people have the information at their fingertips in the moment of need. Lastly, engagement is an important part of our strategy to create a broad ecosystem passionate about Pega technology to further increase our advocates across our clients and other key stakeholders. Our Partners We collaborate with global systems integrators and technology consulting firms that provide consulting services to our clients, as well as Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and technology partners that extend clients investments with integrated solutions. In addition, Authorized Training Partners (ATPs) support Pega customers in local languages, while our Workforce Development Partners let clients outsource their recruiting. Strategic partnerships with these firms are important to our sales efforts because they influence buying decisions, identify sales opportunities, and complement our software with their domain expertise, solutions, and service capabilities. These partners may deliver strategic business planning, consulting, project management, training, and implementation services to our clients. Our partners include well-respected major firms, such as Accenture PLC, Amazon.com, Inc., Areteans, Capgemini SA, Coforge, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, EY, Google, HCL Infosys, Merkle, PwC, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Virtusa Corporation, and Wipro Limited. Our Markets Target Clients Our target clients are Global 2000 organizations and government agencies that require solutions to distinguish themselves in the markets they serve. Our solutions achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. Along with our partners, we deliver solutions tailored to the specific industry needs of our clients. Our clients represent many industries, including: Financial services Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by financial services organizations for Customer Engagement, Onboarding and KYC, Lending, Customer Service, Payment Exceptions, Bank Operations, and Managing Financial Crime. Our platform enables clients to increase loyalty and wallet share, reduce time and effort to close loans and open accounts, address compliance more effectively while simplifying customer experiences, resolve service requests across channels more quickly with less effort, and boost the efficiency of various back-office processes with fewer human touches. Government Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by government agencies for Enterprise Modernization, Licensing, Investigative Case Management, Grants and Financial Management, Acquisition and Supply Chain Modernization, and Citizen Service. Our platform enables clients to modernize legacy systems and processes to meet the growing demands for improved constituent service, lower costs, reduced fraud, and greater transparency. Healthcare Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by healthcare organizations for Consumer Engagement, Onboarding and Enrollment, Customer Service, Care Management Services and Claims/Core Admin. Our platform enables clients to improve member and patient outcomes, loyalty, and retention, simplify experiences with reduced time and effort, resolve service requests faster and easier across channels, advance efficient flexible healthcare coordination, and deliver streamlined, modern experiences for members, providers, and employees. Communications and media Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by communications and media organizations for Customer Engagement, Order Management, Customer Service, Service Assurance, Network Operations, and Shared Services. Our platform enables clients to increase loyalty and wallet share, simplify experiences while accelerating revenues and processes, resolve service requests across channels more quickly with less effort, drive a faster, simpler repair experience, and boost the efficiency of 5G, fiber, and cloud processes. Insurance Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by insurance companies for Customer Engagement, Sales, Distribution, Underwriting, Policy Holder Service, and Claims. Our platform enables clients to nurture and grow their book of business, increase agent sales effectiveness, power better partner performance and loyalty, automate application intake and processing with intelligence, personalize seamless policy lifecycle experiences, and improve claims handling efficiencies with more modern customer and employee experiences. Consumer services Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by consumer services organizations for Customer Engagement, Supplier Onboarding, Customer Service, and Enterprise Operations in industries such as transportation, utilities, internet providers, retail, hospitality, and entertainment. Our platform enables clients to enable more personalized real-time next best action, accelerate onboarding with simplified experiences, automate the resolution of customer requests across channels with increased digital self-servicing, and streamline operations to rapidly reduce cost, time, and risks while increasing customer satisfaction. 7 Manufacturing and high tech Pegas software for AI-powered decisioning and workflow automation is used by manufacturers to streamline their complex global operations and create more value for their customers, dealers, distributors, and suppliers while directly managing the performance, uptime, and impact of their connected products, equipment, and experiences. Our platform enables clients to reduce the complexity of enterprise operations in domains like supply chain, order management, quality management, shared services, customer service, and aftermarket services, including warranty management and captive finance, while minimizing the constraints on digital transformation caused by legacy systems. Competition The markets for our offerings are intensely competitive, rapidly changing, and highly fragmented as current competitors expand their product offerings and new companies enter the market. We compete in the CRM, including marketing, sales, and customer service, and DPA, including BPM, case management, decision management, robotic automation, co-browsing, social engagement, low-code application development, and mobile application development platform software markets, as well as in markets for the vertical applications we provide (e.g., Pega Know Your CustomerTM for Financial Services, Pega Care Management). We also compete with clients internal information systems departments that seek to modify their existing systems or develop their own proprietary systems and professional service organizations that develop their own products or create custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services. Competitors vary in size, scope, and breadth of the products and services they offer and include some of the worlds largest companies, including International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Salesforce.com, SAP SE, and ServiceNow. We have been most successful in competing for clients whose businesses are characterized by a high degree of change, complexity, and/or regulation. We believe we are competitively differentiated because our unified Pega Platform is designed to allow client business and IT staff, using a single, intuitive user interface, to build and evolve enterprise applications in a fraction of the time it would take with disjointed architectures and tools offered by many of our competitors. In addition, our applications, built on the Pega Platform, provide the same flexibility and ability to adapt to our clients needs as the Pega Platform. We believe we compete favorably due to our expertise in our target industries and our long-standing client relationships. We believe we compete less favorably on some of the above factors against our larger competitors, many of which have greater sales, marketing, and financial resources, a more extensive geographical presence, and greater name recognition. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage against our larger competitors with respect to our ability to provide expertise outside our target industries. For additional information, see risk factor "The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and fragmented" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Intellectual Property We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights and our brand. We have obtained patents relating to our system architecture and products in strategic global markets. We enter into confidentiality, intellectual property ownership, and license agreements with our employees, partners, clients, and other third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we also control access to and ownership of software, services, documentation, and other information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. Sales and Marketing We encourage our direct sales force and outside partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives, and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and focus our resources on continued innovation and enhancement of our solutions. In addition, strategic partnerships with management consulting firms and major systems integrators are important to our sales efforts because they influence buying decisions, help us identify sales opportunities, and complement our software and services with their domain expertise and consulting capabilities. We also partner with technology providers and application developers. To support our sales efforts, we conduct a broad range of marketing programs, including awareness advertising, client and industry-targeted solution campaigns, trade shows, including our PegaWorld iNspire user conference, solution seminars and webinars, industry analyst and press relations, web and digital marketing, community development, social media presence, and other direct and indirect marketing efforts. In addition, our consulting employees, business partners, and other third parties also conduct joint and separate marketing campaigns that generate sales leads. Our sales and marketing efforts are premised on the strength of our products, both as they exist currently and as they will continue to develop in the future through our research and development efforts. 8 Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for product architecture, core technology development, product testing, and quality assurance. Our product development priority is to continue expanding our technologys capabilities and ensure we deliver superior cloud-native solutions. We intend to maintain and extend the support of our existing applications, and we may choose to invest in additional strategic applications that incorporate the latest business innovations. We also intend to maintain and extend the support for popular public and private cloud platforms, and integration options to facilitate easy and rapid deployment in diverse IT infrastructures. Our goal with all products is to enhance product capabilities, implementation ease, long-term flexibility, and improve client service. Backlog As of December 31, 2023, we expected to recognize $1.5 billion in revenue from backlog on existing contracts in future periods. For additional information, see "Remaining Performance Obligations ("Backlog")" in Item 7 of this Annual Report. Our People As of January 31, 2024, we had 5,406 employees, of which 1,998 were based in the Americas, 1,224 were based in Europe, 1,873 were based in India, and 311 were based elsewhere in Asia-Pacific. Our people are critical to our success. We strive to be a place where people build their career in an inclusive,equitable, and diverse culture. We believe cultivating our talent is at the heart of engaging, motivating, and retaining our workforce to support our clients, partners, and business. We evolve our corporate culture through various initiatives, including global equity, inclusion, and belonging initiatives, employee engagement, pay equity, and employee development. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging (DEIB) We celebrate, welcome, and foster diverse perspectives at Pega because we believe this will accelerate our ability to deliver innovative products and services to our clients. It is critical for us to create an environment where all individuals are respected, valued, and supported, have access to opportunities, and feel that they belong. Our commitment to DEIB includes inclusion and allyship programs, amongst other investments. We are continuously expanding our sponsorship of formal employee resource groups and are proud to share our support for the following communities: women, veterans, Black, LGBTQIA+, Asian, LatinX, and persons with disabilities. Employee Engagement, Health, and Well-Being Our efforts to retain and attract employees include providing competitive reward packages and encouraging active and transparent communication throughout the Company. We regularly seek feedback to better understand and improve our employee experience, and we are committed to fostering an environment where everyone feels connected at Pega. We share the responsibility to preserve, strengthen, and evolve our culture while continuously reviewing the way we do things to propel us forward together. In addition to our employee engagement survey and continuous feedback tools, we host regular sessions led by the executive leadership team where any employee can ask questions. We are committed to fostering an environment that supports our employees health and overall well-being, with an emphasis on physical, emotional, financial, and personal wellness. PegaUp!, our employee wellness program, includes awareness campaigns, fitness classes, guided meditation, and health and wellness offerings. In 2022, we also implemented global Wellness Days, where we encourage our people to take a break to recharge. Pay Equity We compensate our employees for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider individual factors, such as an employees role and experience, location, and performance. We regularly review our compensation practices, in terms of our overall workforce and individual employees, to ensure our pay is fair and equitable against local markets. Talent Cultivation Talent Cultivation is at the foundation of our people strategy. It is an ongoing, dynamic process that encourages our employees to focus on performance and development goals, receive continuous feedback, and drive their future path for growth. We invest in our employees career growth and progression by providing a wide range of opportunities, including formal and informal development, mentoring, sponsorship, and coaching. Pega Academy helps employees, clients, and partners gain and rapidly advance Pega software skills. A series of leadership and management development programs equip our managers with the skills and knowledge to successfully build a culture of engagement and high performance. Additionally, we provide educational resources and classes, career training, and education reimbursement programs. Corporate Information Pegasystems Inc. was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1983. Our stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PEGA. Our website is at www.pega.com, and our investor relations website is at www.pega.com/about/investors. 9 Available Information We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, free of charge, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish such material to the SEC. We also make available on our website reports filed by our executive officers and directors on Forms 3, 4, and 5 regarding their ownership of our securities. Our Code of Conduct is available on our website in the Governance section. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Events that we do not currently anticipate, or expect to be immaterial, may also materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we fail to operate our subscription-based business model successfully, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We have substantially completed our transition to a more subscription-based business model, in which clients have the right to access our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. The shift of our clients preference to subscription-based offerings requires a scalable organization and a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, managerial, and sales resources. Continued growth of our subscription-based offerings will depend on our ability to continue to: innovate and include new functionality and improve the usability of our products in a manner that addresses our clients needs and requirements; and optimally price our products considering marketplace conditions, competition, our costs, and client demand. Our cloud-based subscription model also requires that we rely on third parties to host our software for our clients. We incur significant recurring third-party hosting expenses to deliver our Pega Cloud offering that we do not incur for our perpetual and term license products. These expenses may cause the gross margin we realize from our Pega Cloud sales to be lower than the gross margin we realize from our perpetual and term license products. If we are unable to meet these challenges effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not achieve the key elements of our strategy and grow our business as anticipated. We currently intend to grow our business by pursuing strategic initiatives consistent with becoming a Rule of 40 company, meaning a company with combined Annual Contract Value (ACV) growth rate and free cash flow margin of at least 40%. Key elements of our strategy include increasing our market share by developing and delivering robust solutions that can work together seamlessly with maximum differentiation and minimal customization, offering versatility in the Pega Platform and application deployment and licensing options to meet the specific needs of our clients, growing our network of partner alliances, and developing the talent and organizational structure capable of supporting our revenue and earnings growth targets. We may not achieve one or more of our key initiatives. Our success depends on our ability to manage our expenses as we appropriately grow our organization, successfully execute our marketing and sales strategies, successfully incorporate acquired technologies into our unified Pega Platform, and develop new products or product enhancements. If we are not able to execute these actions, our business may not grow as we anticipate, and our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, and must attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our business is dependent on key, highly skilled technical, managerial, consulting, sales, and marketing personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, who is also our founder and largest stockholder. The loss of key personnel could be disruptive to our operations and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We do not carry, nor do we currently intend to obtain, significant key-person life insurance on officers or other employees. Our success will depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel and rapidly replacing and developing new management, as needed. The number of potential employees who have the extensive knowledge needed to develop, sell, and maintain our offerings is limited, and competition for their services is intense. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and difficulty in retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, we believe our corporate culture has been a key contributor to our success. If we fail to maintain and enhance our corporate culture within an environment of hybrid work, our ability to retain and recruit personnel essential to our success may be negatively affected. 10 The timing of our license and Pega Cloud revenue is difficult to predict, which may cause our operating results to vary considerably. A change in the size or volume of license and Pega Cloud arrangements, or a change in the mix between perpetual licenses, subscription licenses, and Pega Cloud arrangements, can cause our revenues and cash flows to fluctuate materially between periods. Revenue from subscription service arrangements, which includes Pega Cloud and maintenance, is typically recognized over the contract term, while revenue from license sales is recognized when the license rights become effective, typically upfront. Subscription licenses and services are typically billed and collected over the contract term, while perpetual licenses are generally billed and collected upfront when the license rights become effective. Factors that may influence the predictability of our license and Pega Cloud revenue include: changes in clients budgets and decision-making processes that could affect both the timing and size of transactions; the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products or services; changes in our business model; and our ability to execute our marketing and sales strategies. We budget for our selling and marketing, product development, and other expenses based upon anticipated future bookings and revenue. If the timing or amount of revenue fails to meet our expectations, our financial performance is likely to be materially adversely affected because only a small portion of our expenses vary with revenue. Other factors that may cause our operating results to vary include changes in foreign currency exchange rates, income tax effects, and the impact of new accounting pronouncements. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. If our revenues and operating results do not meet the expectations of our investors or securities analysts or fall below guidance we may provide to the market, or due to other factors discussed elsewhere in this section, the price of our common stock may decline. The number and value of license and Pega Cloud arrangements has been increasing, and we may not be able to sustain this growth unless our partners and we can provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, and maintenance resources to enable our clients to realize significant business value from our software. Our clients typically request consulting and training to assist them in implementing our license and Pega Cloud offerings. Our clients also usually purchase maintenance on our perpetual and term licenses. As a result, an increase in the number and value of license and Pega Cloud arrangements is likely to increase demand for consulting, training, and maintenance related to our offerings. Given that the number and value of our license and Pega Cloud arrangements has been growing, we will need to provide our clients with more consulting, training, and maintenance to enable them to realize significant business value from our software. We have been increasing our partner and client enablement through training to create an expanded ecosystem of people that are skilled in the implementation of our solutions. However, if our partners and we are unable to provide sufficient high-quality consulting, training, and maintenance resources, our clients may not realize sufficient business value from our offerings to justify follow-on sales, which could impact our future financial performance. Further, some of our client engagements have high public visibility. If our partners or we encounter problems in helping these clients implement our license and Pega Cloud offerings or if there is negative publicity regarding these engagements (even if unrelated to our services or offerings), our reputation could be harmed and our future financial performance could be negatively impacted. Finally, the investments required to meet the increased demand for our consulting services could strain our ability to deliver our consulting engagements at desired profitability, thereby impacting our overall profitability and financial results. We may not be able to maintain our retention rate for our subscription clients. The majority of our revenue is derived from our subscription offerings. Our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, although historically, most have elected to do so. If our retention rate for those clients decreases, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially affected. Investments we are making to continue to grow license and Pega Cloud arrangements may result in decreased profitability or losses and reduced or negative cash flow if we do not continue to increase the value of our license and Pega Cloud arrangements to balance our growth in expenses. We expect to provide our clients with more cloud and maintenance support as our business grows and have been investing significantly in research and development to expand and improve the Pega Platform and applications. These investments have resulted in increased fixed costs that do not vary with the level of revenue. If the increased demand for our offerings does not continue, we could experience decreased profitability or losses and reduced or negative cash flow because of these increased fixed costs. Conversely, if we are unable to achieve an appropriate balance of sales and marketing personnel to meet future demand or research and development personnel to enhance our current products or develop new products, we may not be able to achieve our sales and profitability targets. 11 We rely on third-party relationships. We have a number of relationships with third parties that are significant to our sales, marketing, support, and product development efforts, including hosting facilities for our Pega Cloud offering. We rely on software and hardware vendors, large system integrators, and technology consulting firms to supply marketing and sales opportunities for our direct sales force and to strengthen our offerings using industry-standard tools and utilities. We also have relationships with third parties that distribute our products. There can be no assurance that these companies, many of which have far greater financial and marketing resources than us, will not develop or market offerings that compete with ours in the future or will not otherwise end or limit their relationships with us. Further, the use of third-party hosting facilities requires us to rely on the functionality and availability of the third parties services, as well as their data security, which despite our due diligence, may be or become inadequate, as further discussed below under the risk factor We rely on third-party hosting providers to deliver our offerings, and any disruption or interference with our use of these services could adversely affect our business. We face risks from operations and clients based outside of the United States. We market our products and services to clients based outside of the U.S., representing 43% of our revenue over the last three years. We have established offices in the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Australia. We anticipate hiring personnel to accommodate increased international demand, and we may also enter into agreements with local distributors, representatives, or resellers. If we are unable to do one or more of these things in a timely and effective manner, the growth, if any, of our international operations may be restricted, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities include: laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy, and data privacy and protection; increased tariffs and other trade barriers; the costs of localizing offerings for local markets, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; longer payment cycles and credit and collectability risk on our foreign trade receivables; difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; heightened fraud and bribery risks; treatment of revenue from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws, being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions, and other potentially adverse tax consequences (including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of double taxation); management of our international operations, including increased administrative and compliance expenses; heightened risks of political and economic instability; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and controls. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our consulting revenue is significantly dependent upon our consulting personnel implementing new license and Pega Cloud arrangements. We derive a substantial portion of our consulting revenue from implementations of new license and Pega Cloud arrangements managed by our consulting personnel and consulting for partner and client-led implementation efforts. Our strategy is to support and encourage partner-led and client-led implementations to increase the breadth, capability, and depth of market capacity to deliver implementation services to our clients. Accordingly, if our consulting personnels involvement in future implementations decreases, this could materially adversely affect our consulting revenue. We frequently enter into a series of license or Pega Cloud arrangements that each focus on a specific purpose or area of operations. If we are not successful in obtaining follow-on business from these clients, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Once a client has realized the value of our software, we work with the client to identify opportunities for follow-on sales. However, we may not be successful in demonstrating this value for several reasons, including the performance of our products, the quality of the services and support provided by our partners and us, or external factors. Also, some of our smaller clients may have limited additional sales opportunities available. We may not obtain follow-on sales, or the follow-on sales may be delayed, and our future revenue could be limited. 12 We will need to acquire or develop new products, evolve existing ones, address defects or errors, and adapt to technology changes. Technical developments, client requirements, programming languages, industry standards, and regulatory requirements frequently change in the markets in which we operate. The introduction of third-party solutions embodying new technologies, including generative AI and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our success will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, address any product defects or errors, acquire or develop and introduce new products that meet client needs, keep pace with technology and regulatory changes, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement, and testing. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary product development investments. We may experience technical or other difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, or implementation of new or enhanced products. We may also experience technical or other challenges integrating acquired technologies into our existing platform and applications. Inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share if competitors are able to provide solutions to meet client needs before we do, give rise to unanticipated expenses related to further development or modification of acquired technologies, and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may also fail to anticipate adequately and prepare for the development of new markets and applications for our technology and the commercialization of emerging technologies such as generative AI and thereby fail to take advantage of new market opportunities or fall behind early movers in those markets. The market for our offerings is intensely and increasingly competitive, rapidly changing, and fragmented. We encounter significant competition from: customer engagement vendors, including Customer Relationship Management application vendors; Digital Process Automation vendors and platforms, including Business Process Management vendors, low-code application development platforms, and service-oriented architecture middleware vendors; case management vendors; decision management, data science, and Artificial Intelligence vendors, as well as vendors of solutions that leverage decision making and data science in managing customer relationships and marketing; robotic automation and workforce intelligence software providers; companies that provide application-specific software for financial services, healthcare, insurance, and other specific markets; mobile application platform vendors; co-browsing software providers; social listening, text analytics, and natural language processing vendors; commercialized open-source vendors; professional services organizations that develop their own products or create custom software in conjunction with rendering consulting services; and clients in-house information technology departments, which may seek to modify their existing systems or develop their own proprietary systems. Many of our competitors, such as International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Salesforce.com, SAP SE, and ServiceNow, have far greater resources than we do and may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new or emerging technologies, programming languages or standards, or changes in client requirements or preferences. Competitors may also be able to devote greater managerial and financial resources to develop, promote, and distribute products and to provide related consulting and training services. We believe the principal competitive factors within our market include: product adaptability, scalability, functionality, and performance; proven success in delivering cost-savings and efficiency improvements; proven success in enabling improved customer interactions; ease-of-use for developers, business units, and end-users; timely development and introduction of new products and product enhancements; establishment of a significant base of reference clients; ability to integrate with other products and technologies; customer service and support; product price; vendor reputation; and relationships with systems integrators. 13 Competition for market share and pressure to reduce prices and make sales concessions is likely to increase. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. For additional information, see "Item 1. Business" of this Annual Report. Our Chief Executive Officer is our largest stockholder and can exert significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders, which could materially adversely affect our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2023, our Chief Executive Officer beneficially owned approximately 47 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he has the ability to exert significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our assets. Under Massachusetts law and our governing documents, approval of a merger, share exchange or sale of all or substantially all of our assets requires approval of two-thirds of all shares entitled to vote. As a result, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, or result in actions that may be opposed by other stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in the appeal of the trial court judgment in our litigation with Appian Corp., our operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. We are currently party to litigation with Appian Corp. see Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings and "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. On September 15, 2022, the circuit court of Fairfax County entered judgment for Appian in the amount of $2,060,479,287 and awarding post-judgment interest. The Company filed a notice of appeal from the judgment the same day with the Court of Appeals of Virginia. On September 29, 2022, the circuit court approved the $25,000,000 letter of credit obtained by the Company to secure the judgment and suspended the judgment during the pendency of the Companys appeal. On November 15, 2023, the Court of Appeals of Virginia heard oral arguments in the appeal. After the Court issues an opinion, the non-prevailing party or, depending on the ruling of the court, parties may file a petition for rehearing with the Court of Appeals of Virginia and/or file a petition for appeal with the Supreme Court of Virginia. Although it is not possible to predict timing, this appeals process could potentially take years to complete. We believe we have strong grounds to overturn the result in the trial court. But if we are ultimately unsuccessful in prevailing in the matter in its entirety or in substantially reducing any judgment, we may be required to incur additional debt or otherwise engage in capital markets transactions, which may include a public offering or private placement of our equity securities or a sale or license of assets. See below under the risk factor, We may require additional capital in the future. In addition, if we do not satisfy the judgment within 60 days following the expiration of the right to appeal, there may be an acceleration of liabilities under our Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the Notes) and our Credit Facility. We believe that we have the financial strength to pay these amounts if it ever becomes necessary, but it is possible that we may not be able to engage in financing activities on desirable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Further discussion of these risks is contained below under the heading Risks Related to Our Financial Obligations and Indebtedness. Risks Related to Information Technology Resilience and Security We face risks related to outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. The increasing user traffic for our Pega Cloud offering demands more computing power. It requires that we maintain an internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of client data, power outages, or telecommunications infrastructure outages, by our third-party service providers or us, could diminish the quality of our user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by clients and others, damage to our reputation, loss of current and potential clients, and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Security of our systems and global client data is a growing challenge. Cyber-attacks and security breaches may expose us to significant legal and financial liabilities. High-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years. Security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attackers targeting information technology products and businesses. Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individual hackers, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations, or nation-states themselves, may take steps that threaten our clients, suppliers, third-party technology providers, and us. 14 Although we are not aware of having experienced any prior material data breaches, regulatory non-compliance incidents or cyber security incidents, we may in the future be impacted by such an event, exposing our clients and us to a risk of someone obtaining access to our information, to information of our clients or their customers, or to our intellectual property, disabling or degrading service, or sabotaging systems or information. Any such security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, require us to incur significant costs of investigation, remediation and/or payment of a ransom, lead to legal liability, negatively impact our future sales, and result in a substantial financial loss. Additionally, our Pega Cloud offering provides provisioned, monitored, and maintained environments for individual clients to create and deploy Pega-based applications using an Internet-based infrastructure. These services involve storing and transmitting client data and other confidential information. Our security measures, those of our suppliers, third-party technology providers, and our clients may be breached because of third-party actions or those of employees, consultants, clients, or others, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, system errors, human errors, technical flaws in our products, or otherwise. Because we do not control the configuration of Pega applications by our clients, the transmissions between our clients and our third-party technology providers, the processing of data on the servers at third-party technology providers, or the internal controls maintained by our clients and third-party technology providers that could prevent unauthorized access or provide appropriate data encryption, we cannot fully ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions processing or controls. In addition, privacy, security, and data transmission concerns in some parts of the world may inhibit demand for our Pega Cloud offering or lead to requirements to provide our products or services in configurations that may increase the cost of serving such markets. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and are generally only recognized once launched against a target. While we have invested in protecting our data and systems and clients' data to reduce these risks and actively monitor for risks of data breaches, regulatory non-compliance incidents and cyber security incidents, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breaches. Moreover, like most software companies, we incorporate open-source code into our software products and services, which also creates a potential risk. We deal with security issues regularly and have experienced security incidents from time to time. We have a standing Compliance and Risk Governing Committee composed of senior representatives across the Company that reports to and assists the Audit Committee and the Board as a whole in the oversight of compliance and risk management programs, including cybersecurity measures. In addition, we have a standing Security Steering Group, whose members include our Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Product Officer and Chief Technical Systems Officer, and which is charged with providing strategic direction for the implementation and ongoing operation of our cyber security program. Even with the efforts the Company has undertaken, there is a risk that a security breach will be successful, and such an event will be material. We carry data breach insurance coverage to mitigate the financial impact of a security breach, though this may prove insufficient in the event of a breach. Our Pega Cloud offering involves hosting client applications on the servers of third-party technology providers. We also rely on third-party systems and technology, including encryption, virtualized infrastructure, and support, and employ a shared security model with our clients and third-party technology providers. To defend against security threats, we need to continuously engineer products and services with enhanced security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, apply technologies that mitigate the risk of attacks, and maintain a digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services. The cost of these steps could negatively impact our operating results. While we actively work to improve vulnerability scanning, patching, threat intelligence, security event detection, security event alerting and forensics, it is possible that security breaches, whether due to unpatched vulnerabilities or otherwise, occur and may be undetected when they occur. Any such security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, require us to incur significant costs of investigation, remediation and/or payment of a ransom, lead to legal liability, negatively impact our future sales, and result in a substantial financial loss. We rely on third-party hosting providers to deliver our offerings, and any disruption or interference with our use of these services could adversely affect our business. Our use of third-party hosting facilities requires us to rely on the functionality and availability of the third-party services and their data security, which, despite our due diligence, may be or become inadequate. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to use and access our cloud services or our website to download our software within an acceptable amount of time. We use third-party service providers for key infrastructure components, particularly when developing and delivering our cloud-based products. These service providers give us greater flexibility in efficiently delivering a more tailored, scalable customer experience and expose us to additional risks and vulnerabilities. Third-party service providers operate platforms we access and which are vulnerable to service interruptions. We may experience interruptions, delays, and outages in service and availability due to problems with our third-party service providers infrastructure. This infrastructures lack of availability could be due to many potential causes, including technical failures, power shortages, natural disasters, fraud, terrorism, or security attacks that we cannot predict or prevent. Such outages could trigger our service level agreements and the issuance of credits to our clients, which may impact our business and consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to renew our agreements with our cloud service providers on commercially reasonable terms, an agreement is prematurely terminated, or we need to add new cloud services providers to increase capacity and uptime, we could experience interruptions, downtime, delays, and additional expenses related to transferring to and providing support for these new platforms. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation and brand, reduce our platforms availability or usage, and impair our ability to attract new users, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 We may experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services and could face privacy, product liability, and warranty claims. Despite quality testing each release, our software frequently contains errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software could affect its ability to work with hardware or other software or delay the development or release of new products or new versions of our software. Additionally, detecting and correcting any security flaws, including those introduced by our use of open-source, can be time-consuming and costly. Errors or security flaws in our software could result in the inadvertent disclosure of confidential information or personal data relating to our clients, employees, or third parties. Software errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to privacy, product liability, or warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Typically, we enter into license agreements that contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of product liability and warranty claims. A court might interpret these terms in a limited way or hold part or all of them unenforceable. Also, there is a risk that these contract terms might not bind a party other than the direct client. Furthermore, some of our licenses with our clients are governed by non-U.S. law, and there is a risk that foreign law might give us less or different protection. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, a product liability suit or action claiming a breach of warranty, whether meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and our resources. Risks Related to Our Financial Obligations and Indebtedness We have significant debt which may limit our business flexibility, access to capital, and/or increase our borrowing costs, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. As of December 31, 2023, we had $502.27 million in aggregate principal indebtedness under our Notes and have outstanding letters of credit under our credit facility, including a $25 million letter of credit obtained to secure the judgment in our litigation with Appian. Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; dilute existing stockholders from the issuance of common stock if the Notes are converted; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to pay our debt when due or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and make necessary investments in our business. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital market conditions and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. In turn, this could result in that and our other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation or cost of borrowing. We may require additional capital in the future. We may require additional capital in the future to finance our operations. If we raise funds through future issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any future debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operations matters, which may increase the risks related to our business and our ability to service and repay our indebtedness. 16 The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under certain circumstances, the noteholders may convert their Notes at their option prior to the scheduled maturity at the current conversion rate of 7.4045 shares of common stock per each $1,000 principal amount of Notes or an effective conversion price of $135.05 per share. Upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion, we will be obligated to make cash payments. In addition, holders of our Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture, dated as of February 24, 2020, between U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the Trustee) and us (the Indenture)), at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. Although it is our intention and we currently expect to settle the conversion value of the Notes in cash up to the principal amount and any excess in shares, there is a risk that we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to make payments may be limited by law, regulatory authority, or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes when the Indenture requires the repurchase or to pay any cash payable on the Notes future conversions as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. In addition, even if holders of Notes do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The Capped Call Transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the Notes issuance, we entered into Capped Call Transactions with certain financial institutions (option counterparties). The Capped Call Transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. From time to time, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions before the maturity of the Notes. This activity could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We are exposed to counterparty risk for the Capped Call Transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of the option counterparties may default or otherwise fail to perform, or may exercise certain rights to terminate, their obligations under the Capped Call Transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under such transaction. Our exposure depends on many factors, but our exposure will generally increase if the market price or the volatility of our common stock increases. In addition, upon default or other failures to perform, or termination of obligations, by an option counterparty, we may suffer more dilution in our common stock than we currently anticipate. We can provide no guarantee as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Provisions in the Notes Indenture may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to our stockholders. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the Notes maturity date, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) occurs prior to the maturity date, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate of the Notes for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. Furthermore, the Indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions in the Indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to our stockholders. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. If the Notes were converted, there would be dilution of the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect our common stocks prevailing market prices. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 17 We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our revolving credit facility. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the credit facility. We must comply with specified financial and operating covenants under our credit facility and make payments, limiting our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any debt payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and/or unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants under the credit facility at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. The financial and operating covenants under the credit facility may limit our ability to borrow funds or capital, including for strategic acquisitions, share repurchases, and other general corporate purposes. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Government Regulation We face risks related to intellectual property claims or appropriation of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secrets laws, as well as intellectual property and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies and other proprietary information. We have obtained patents in strategically important global markets relating to the architecture of our systems. We cannot be certain that such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that rights granted thereunder, or the claims contained therein will provide us with competitive advantages. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our software or to obtain the use of information that we regard as proprietary. Although we generally enter into intellectual property and confidentiality agreements with our employees and strategic partners, despite our efforts our former employees may seek employment with our business partners, clients, vendors, or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as effectively as they do in the U.S. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Other companies or individuals have obtained proprietary rights covering a variety of designs, processes, and systems. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that we have infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property. We are currently party to litigation with Appian Corp. see Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and the preceding risk factor captioned If we are unsuccessful in the appeal of the trial court judgment in our litigation with Appian Corp., our operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for infringement or other violation of the proprietary rights of third parties and assert ownership of work product and intellectual property rights as appropriate, there are often exceptions, and limitations may not be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if limitations are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could be material given the size of certain of our transactions. We expect that software product developers, including us, will increasingly be subject to infringement and other intellectual property violation claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. As evidenced by our previously mentioned litigation with Appian Corp., depending on when and how asserted, these claims, with or without merit, are often time-consuming, result in costly litigation and subject us to significant liability for damages. It is also possible that these claims result in treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights, cause product shipment and delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or preclude us from making and selling the infringing software, if such proprietary rights are found to be valid. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require substantial time, effort, and cost. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software and may be unable to compete effectively, which could have a material effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Intellectual property rights claims by third parties are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies can dedicate greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may, therefore, provide little or no deterrence. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties' intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims. 18 Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Significant judgments are required for the determination of probability and the range of the outcomes in any legal dispute, and the estimates are based only on the information available to us at the time. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in claims, legal proceedings, and in estimating the losses that may arise, actual outcomes may differ from our estimates. Contingencies deemed not probable or for which losses were not estimable in one period may become probable, or losses may become estimable in later periods which may have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments to our customers. Any of these could seriously harm our business. We are currently party to litigation with Appian Corp. see Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and the preceding risk factor captioned If we are unsuccessful in the appeal of the trial court judgment in our litigation with Appian Corp., our operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. While we continue to believe that we have the financial strength to pay these amounts if it ever becomes necessary, it is possible that we may not be able to engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success depends in part on maintaining and increasing our sales to clients in the public sector. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with domestic and foreign governments and related agencies. We believe that our businesss success and growth will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Factors that could impede our ability to maintain or increase the revenue derived from government contracts include: changes in fiscal or contracting policies; decreases in available government funding; changes in government programs or applicable requirements; the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or other funding authorization processes; governments and governmental agencies requiring contractual terms that are unfavorable to us, such as most-favored-nation pricing provisions; and delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. The occurrence of any of those factors could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing our software in the future or otherwise harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Further, to increase our sales to clients in the public sector, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, performance, and pricing of contracts with the public sector, including U.S. federal, state, and local governmental bodies, which affect how our channel partners and we do business in connection with governmental agencies. These laws and regulations may impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations or other applicable requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners or government clients, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of intellectual property rights, and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. Any such damages, penalties, disruptions, or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to increasingly complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, requiring costly compliance measures. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, data privacy and security laws, and similar laws and regulations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar foreign anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to obtain or retain business. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries where we do or intend to do business. 19 Within recent years, there has been an increase in the scope and enforcement of data privacy laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business. The European Parliament adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), effective May 2018, that extended the scope of European privacy laws to any entity that controls or processes personal data of European Union residents in connection with the offer of goods or services or the monitoring of behavior and imposes new compliance obligations concerning the handling of personal data. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), effective January 2020, requires, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosure to consumers about such companies data collection, use and sharing practices, provide such consumers new ways to opt-out of certain sales or transfers of personal information, and provide consumers with additional causes of action. The CCPA was modified as of January 1, 2023 by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) which expands California consumers rights with respect to sensitive personal information and which created a new state agency that is vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA, CPRA and associated regulations. Following the passage of the CCPA, several other U.S. states passed similar data privacy laws with variations on the CCPA/CPRA and GDPR requirements, most of which laws either went into effect in 2023 or will go into effect in 2024. Additional states are expected to pass their own versions of data privacy laws in 2024. In 2023, Europe finalized the first-ever comprehensive legal framework for governance of the use of artificial intelligence, the European Union Artificial Intelligence Act, with an anticipated effective date in 2026, and is moving forward with finalizing applicable regulations. Compliance with these varying regimes has caused and will cause us to incur additional costs, including as may result from any non-compliance or asserted non-compliance. We have developed and implemented a compliance program based on what we believe are reasonable practices, including the background checking of our current partners and prospective clients and partners. We cannot guarantee, however, that we, our employees, our consultants, our partners, or our contractors are or will be compliant with all federal, state, and foreign regulations, particularly as we expand our operations outside of the U.S. If our representatives or we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties, and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are determined not to have violated these laws, government inquiries into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also harm our business. In addition, regulation of data privacy and security laws is increasing worldwide, including various restrictions on cross-border access or transfer of data, including personal data of our employees, our clients, and customers of our clients. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs, and there is a risk of enforcement of such laws resulting in damage to our brand, as well as financial penalties and the potential loss of business, which could be significant. Our tax exposures could be greater than anticipated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. We are undergoing inquiries, audits, and reviews by various taxing authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be materially adversely affected by a shift in our jurisdictional income mix, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, because of changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as by certain discrete items. In the United States, this may include any changes to the currently enacted law regarding mandatory capitalization of research and experimentation expenses, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2021. Considering fiscal challenges in many jurisdictions, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative actions to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes. Several U.S. states have attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income or loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Similarly, in Europe and elsewhere globally, various tax reform efforts underway are designed to increase the taxes paid by corporate entities. On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EUs Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework that was supported by over 130 countries worldwide. The EU effective dates are January 1, 2024, and January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive. A significant number of countries are also implementing similar local legislation. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the Pillar Two Framework on future periods, pending legislative adoption by additional individual countries. 20 If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate our foreign cash balances to the United States, we may be subject to increased taxes, other restrictions, and limitations. As of December 31, 2023, $159.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in our foreign subsidiaries. If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate foreign funds, we may have to pay federal, state, and local income taxes as well as foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation. We consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. As a result, domestic and foreign taxes on such earnings have not been provided in our financial statements. It is not practical to estimate the amount of tax we would have to pay upon repatriation due to the complexity of the tax laws and other factors. General Risk Factors The provision in our amended and restated bylaws, requiring exclusive forum in certain courts in The Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the federal district court for the District of Massachusetts for certain types of lawsuits, may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Business Litigation Section of the Superior Court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts (the BLS) or, if the BLS lacks jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Massachusetts, Eastern Division, shall be the exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act (the MBCA), our articles of organization, or our bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims, or limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us or our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products, increase our costs of operation and harm our business. Global economic uncertainty has produced, and continues to produce, substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets. Various factors contribute to the uncertain economic environment, including the level and volatility of interest rates, high inflation, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and between Israel and Gaza, an actual recession or fears of a recession, trade policies and tariffs, and geopolitical tensions. Economic uncertainty has and could continue to negatively affect the business and purchasing decisions of companies in industries in which our customers operate. As global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts, the ability and willingness of our customers to make investments in technology may be impacted, which in turn may delay or reduce the purchases of our software and services and also impact the ability and willingness of our customers to pay amounts due to us or otherwise honor their contractual commitments. These clients may also become subject to increasingly restrictive regulatory requirements, which could limit or delay their ability to proceed with technology purchases and may result in longer sales cycles, increased price competition, and reductions in sales of our products and services. At the same time, factors such as inflation may increase our costs of operation. The combination of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside of the U.S., we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales are usually denominated in foreign currencies. The operating expenses of our foreign operations are also primarily denominated in foreign currencies, which partially offset our foreign currency exposure on our international sales. Our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the U.S. dollar, the Euro, and the Australian dollar relative to the British Pound. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. We do not currently use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We may enter into hedging contracts again in the future if we believe it is appropriate. Our realized gain or loss for foreign currency fluctuations will depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered forward contracts to offset these exposures, and other factors. All these factors could materially impact our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. 21 The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and fluctuate due to a variety of factors, some of which are related in complex ways. Factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in the prices of our products and professional services; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products or services; announcements by our competitors or us of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new offerings; our involvement in any litigation or investigations by regulators, including litigation judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs; our sale of our common stock or other securities; changes in our Board of Directors, senior management, or key personnel; the trading volume of our common stock; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic, regulatory, political, and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, regulatory, political, and market conditions, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have provided and may continue to give guidance on our business, future operating results, and other business metrics. In developing this guidance, our management must make certain assumptions and judgments about our future performance. Furthermore, analysts and investors may develop and publish their own projections of our business, which may form a consensus about our future performance. Our business results may vary significantly from such guidance or that consensus due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. Furthermore, if we make downward revisions of our previously announced guidance, or if our publicly announced guidance of future operating results fails to meet expectations of securities analysts, investors, or other interested parties, our common stock price may decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends partly on the research and reports that securities and industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our stock price will likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY We recognize the critical importance of maintaining the safety and security of our systems and data, and have a holistic approach for overseeing and managing cybersecurity and related risks. Our Board of Directors (the Board), the Audit Committee of the Board (the Audit Committee), and our management are actively involved in the oversight of our risk management program, of which cybersecurity represents an important component. We have established policies, standards, processes, and practices for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. A key component of this is our standing Security Steering Group (SSG) whose members include, among others, our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), Chief Product Officer, and Chief Technical Systems Officer. We have devoted significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures to meet regulatory requirements and customer expectations, and we intend to continue to make significant investments to maintain the security of our data and cybersecurity infrastructure. There can be no guarantee that our policies, standards, processes, and practices will be properly followed in every instance or that they will be effective. 22 Although we are not aware of having experienced any prior material data breaches, regulatory non-compliance incidents, or cyber security incidents, we may in the future be impacted by such an event, exposing our clients and us to the risk of someone obtaining access to our information, to the information of our clients or their customers, or to our intellectual property, disabling or degrading service, or sabotaging systems or information. Any such security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, require us to incur significant costs of investigation, remediation, and/or payment of a ransom, lead to legal liability, negatively impact our future sales, and result in a substantial financial loss. For additional information, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Annual Report. Risk Management and Strategy Our policies, standards, processes, and practices for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats are integrated into our overall risk management program and are based on frameworks established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the International Organization for Standardization, and certain other applicable industry standards. Our cybersecurity program focuses on the following key areas: Collaboration We have implemented a governance structure and processes to aggregate reported cybersecurity risks on behalf of Pega Cloud, Pegas software products, and the corporate environment. Our SSG is responsible for providing strategic direction for implementing and maintaining our cyber risk management program. Risk Assessment Our cyber risk management program is designed to follow the ISO 31000 and the NIST Special Publication 800-37 frameworks and is in the scope of our ISO 27001 certifications. At least annually, we conduct cybersecurity risk assessments that consider information from internal stakeholders, known information security vulnerabilities, and information from external sources, such as reported security incidents that have impacted other companies, industry trends, and evaluations by third parties and consultants. The results of the assessments are provided to our SSG and are used to drive alignment on, and prioritization of, initiatives to enhance our security controls, make recommendations to improve processes, and inform our broader enterprise-level risk assessment. Key findings of these assessments are periodically presented to the Board and the Audit Committee. Technical Safeguards We regularly assess and deploy technical safeguards designed to protect our information systems from cybersecurity threats. Such safeguards are regularly evaluated and improved based on vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity threat intelligence, and incident response experience. Incident Response and Recovery Planning We have implemented Cyber Incident Response Programs, which are in the scope of our ISO 27001 certifications. We have also implemented Business Continuity Programs, which are in the scope of our ISO 22301 certification. We have established comprehensive incident response and recovery plans and test and evaluate the effectiveness of those plans regularly. Third-Party Risk Management We have implemented a Vendor Cybersecurity Risk Management Program (VCRMP), which is in the scope of our ISO 27001 certifications. The VCRMP controls are designed to identify and mitigate cybersecurity threats associated with our use of third-party service providers. These providers are subject to security risk assessments at the time of onboarding, contract renewal, and upon detection of an increase in risk profile. We use a variety of inputs in making these risk assessments, including information supplied by providers and third parties. In addition, we require our providers to meet appropriate security requirements, controls and responsibilities, and investigate security incidents that have impacted our third-party providers, as appropriate. Education and Awareness We require all employees to participate in security awareness training, including frequent phishing tests. Currently, our mandatory employee training courses include Security Awareness, Physical Security Awareness, Mobile Device Security, Business Continuity and Phishing, Work From Home, and AI Chatbot. In addition, all of our employee software developers are required to take additional security awareness training, currently including Secure Development. We periodically adjust the list of mandatory and optional courses. Corporate Security Posture We periodically conduct independent security assessments to assess its security posture and to inform where cyber security investments should be made. For systems in our corporate environment on which our cloud certifications have an operational dependency, we also maintain ISO/IEC 27001 certifications relating to overall IT processes and controls and ISO 22301 certification relating to business continuity. 23 Product Security Posture To facilitate identification of security vulnerabilities in our products, we periodically conduct third party penetration tests and participate in the independent Verified By Veracode program, as detailed on its website (https://www.veracode.com/verified/directory/pegasystemsInc) which is included as an inactive reference and the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. We also generate a monthly software bill of materials that identifies open source included in certain of our product offerings and periodically have an independent security assessment firm evaluate the security risks linked to suppliers we use, including source code repositories, the infrastructure employed for software development, and the mechanisms used for software delivery, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Our Chief Product Officer reviews these findings and provides updates to our SSG. We regularly release new versions of our products to address identified security vulnerabilities, enabling clients to stay updated with the latest product releases. However, even after we make these updates available, it is possible that clients do not implement these updates or use products on extended support that do not include security updates. Pega Cloud Security Posture Pega Cloud undergoes several security assessments a year. Redacted versions of these reports are made available to our clients. Pega Cloud also maintains several security certifications, which are listed at http://pega.com/trust which is included as an inactive reference and the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Pega Cloud for Government is rated FedRAMP Moderate and undergoes several security assessments a year as part of the FedRAMP certification process. Our Chief Technical Systems Officer reviews these assessments and provides updates to our SSG. Governance Board Oversight As part of our corporate governance process, the Board, along with the Audit Committee, oversees our risk management process, which includes cybersecurity and related risks.Our CISO periodically meets with the Board and Audit Committee to inform and update them on our cybersecurity program. SSG and Key Personnel We have a standing SSG whose members include, among others, our CISO, Chief Product Officer, and Chief Technical Systems Officer. The SSG is charged with providing strategic direction for the implementation and ongoing operation of our cyber security program. The SSG meets at least quarterly. Our CISO chairs the SSG and decisions and recommendations are based on a consensus of the members. Our CISO has twenty years of professional experience, with eleven years specifically in information security roles. He has been with Pega for four years and has a Master of Science degree from Northwestern University. Our Chief Product Officer has been with Pega for thirty-one years, has extensive experience in software development, and has a Bachelor of Science from the Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Our Chief Technical Systems Officer has been with Pega for six years and has twenty-five years of technology management experience, with thirteen years of leadership roles in cloud services and related information security issues, and served in the U.S. Navy and holds a degree in Business Administration from the College of Technology at the State University of New York Farmingdale. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal administrative, sales, marketing, support, and research and development operations are in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Waltham, Massachusetts, and Hyderabad, India. We also maintain offices elsewhere in the Americas, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific regions. All of our properties are leased. We believe we will be able to obtain future space as needed on acceptable and commercially reasonable terms. For additional information, see "Note 10. Leases" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information set forth in "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PEGA. Holders As of February 6, 2024, we had 49 stockholders of record. Dividends During 2023, 2022, and 2021, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share of common stock. We expect to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share; however, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify this dividend program without prior notice. Issuer purchases of equity securities (1) Common stock repurchased in the three months ended December 31, 2023: (in thousands, except per share amounts) Total Number of Shares Purchased (2) Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Share Repurchase Program Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased at Period End Under Publicly Announced Share Repurchased Programs October 1, 2023 - October 31, 2023 $ $ 60,000 November 1, 2023 - November 30, 2023 3 $ 52.39 $ 60,000 December 1, 2023 - December 31, 2023 5 $ 52.73 $ 60,000 Total 8 $ 52.59 (1) For additional information, see "Stock Repurchase Program" in Item 7 of this Annual Report. (2) Shares withheld to cover the option exercise price and tax withholding obligations under the net settlement provisions of our stock compensation awards have been included in these amounts. 25 Stock performance graph and cumulative total stockholder return (1) The following performance graph represents a comparison of the cumulative total stockholder return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, for a $100 investment on December 31, 2018 in our common stock, the Total Return Index for the NASDAQ Composite, a broad market index, and the Standard & Poors (S&P) North American Technology Sector - Software Index (S&P NA Tech Software), a published industry index. December 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Pegasystems Inc. $ 100.00 $ 166.79 $ 279.35 $ 234.61 $ 72.03 $ 103.03 NASDAQ Composite $ 100.00 $ 136.69 $ 198.10 $ 242.03 $ 163.28 $ 236.17 S&P NA Tech Software $ 100.00 $ 134.59 $ 204.44 $ 235.70 $ 150.80 $ 240.73 (1) The graph lines merely connect measurement dates and do not reflect fluctuations between those dates. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS NON-GAAP MEASURES Our non-GAAP financial measures should only be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these measures help investors understand our core operating results and prospects, which is consistent with how management measures and forecasts our performance without the effect of often one-time charges and other items outside our normal operations. They are not a substitute for financial measures prepared under U.S. GAAP. A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP measures is located with each non-GAAP measure. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We develop, market, license, host, and support enterprise software that helps organizations build agility into their business so they can adapt to change. Our powerful, low-code platform for workflow automation and artificial intelligence-powered decisioning enables the worlds leading brands and government agencies to hyper-personalize customer experiences, streamline customer service, and automate mission-critical business processes and workflows. With Pega, our clients can leverage our artificial intelligence (AI) technology and scalable architecture to accelerate their digital transformation. In addition, our client success teams, world-class partners, and clients leverage our Pega Express methodology to design and deploy mission-critical applications quickly and collaboratively. 26 Our target clients are Global 2000 organizations and government agencies that require solutions to distinguish themselves in the markets they serve. Our solutions achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. Along with our partners, we deliver solutions tailored to the specific industry needs of our clients. Performance metrics We use performance metrics to analyze and assess our overall performance, make operating decisions, and forecast and plan for future periods, including: Annual contract value (ACV) ACV represents the annualized value of our active contracts as of the measurement date. The contract's total value is divided by its duration in years to calculate ACV. ACV is a performance measure that we believe provides useful information to our management and investors. In 2023, the Company revised its ACV methodology for maintenance and all contracts less than 12 months as its overall client renewal rate exceeds 90%. The impact of the change was $3 million or 0.3% of Total ACV or less for all quarters in 2022. Previously disclosed ACV amounts have been updated to allow for comparability. This simplification, made possible by improvements to the Companys financial systems, ensures that ACV for all contract types and lengths is consistently calculated as the total contract value divided by the duration in years. Previously, ACV for maintenance was calculated as the maintenance revenue for the quarter then ended, multiplied by four, and ACV for contracts less than 12 months was equal to the contracts total value. The Company believes the simplified methodology better represents the current value of its contracts and better aligns its definition with comparable companies. Reconciliation of ACV and ACV (constant currency) (in millions, except percentages) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 1-Year Change ACV $ 1,126 $ 1,255 11 % Impact of changes in foreign exchange rates (11) ACV (constant currency) $ 1,126 $ 1,244 11 % Note: ACV (constant currency) is calculated by applying the December 31, 2022 foreign exchange rates to all periods shown. 27 Cash flow Note: Starting in the third quarter of 2023, the Company calculated free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less investments in property and equipment. To ensure comparability, previously disclosed amounts have been updated. 2023 2022 Margin (2) Margin (2) Cash provided by operating activities $ 217,785 15 % $ 22,336 2 % Investment in property and equipment (16,781) (35,379) Free cash flow (1) $ 201,004 14 % $ (13,043) (1) % Supplemental information(3) Restructuring $ 29,401 $ Legal fees 14,645 41,789 Interest on convertible senior notes 4,134 4,500 Other 601 6,805 Income taxes 11,664 7,645 $ 60,445 $ 60,739 Effect of supplemental information to Rule of 40 achievement (4) 4 % 5 % (1) Our non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less investment in property and equipment. Investment in property and equipment fluctuates in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of investments in our facilities. We provide information on free cash flow to enable investors to assess our ability to generate cash without incurring additional external financings. This information is not a substitute for financial measures prepared under U.S. GAAP. Starting in the third quarter of 2023, the Company calculated free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less investments in property and equipment. To ensure comparability, previously disclosed amounts have been updated. (2) Operating and free cash flow margin are calculated by comparing the respective cash flow to total revenue. (3) The supplemental information discloses items that affect our cash flows and are considered by management not to be representative of our core business operations and ongoing operational performance. Restructuring: Restructuring fluctuates in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our restructuring activities. Legal fees: Legal and related fees arising from proceedings outside the ordinary course of business. Interest on convertible senior notes: In February 2020, we issued convertible senior notes, due March 1, 2025, in a private placement. The Notes accrue interest at an annual rate of 0.75%, payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. Other: Fees related to capital advisory services, canceled in-person sales and marketing events, and incremental costs incurred integrating acquisitions. Income taxes: Direct income taxes paid net of refunds received. 28 (4) Rule of 40: A performance metric calculated by adding the annual contract value (ACV) growth rate and the free cash flow margin. We also provide a table of supplemental information of other items that affect our cash flows and Rule of 40 achievement. Remaining performance obligations (Backlog) Reconciliation of Backlog and Constant Currency Backlog (Non-GAAP) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023 1 Year Growth Rate Backlog - GAAP $ 1,356 $ 1,463 8 % Impact of changes in foreign exchange rates (16) Constant currency backlog $ 1,356 $ 1,447 7 % Note: Constant currency Backlog is calculated by applying the Q4 2022 foreign exchange rates to all periods shown. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Pega Cloud $ 461,328 32 % $ 384,271 29 % $ 77,057 20 % Maintenance 331,856 24 % 317,564 24 % 14,292 5 % Subscription services 793,184 56 % 701,835 53 % 91,349 13 % Subscription license 407,625 28 % 366,063 28 % 41,562 11 % Subscription 1,200,809 84 % 1,067,898 81 % 132,911 12 % Perpetual license 10,101 1 % 19,293 1 % (9,192) (48) % Consulting 221,706 15 % 230,654 18 % (8,948) (4) % $ 1,432,616 100 % $ 1,317,845 100 % $ 114,771 9 % The increase in Pega Cloud revenue in 2023 was primarily due to the growth of the hosted client base as our clients continued to expand their use of Pega Cloud. The increase in maintenance revenue in 2023 was primarily due to continued demand for our subscription license offerings, which are sold with maintenance committed for the full term of the subscription license The increase in subscription license revenue in 2023 was primarily due to high renewal activity, resulting in an increase in license deliveries. The decrease in perpetual license revenue in 2023 reflects our strategy of promoting subscription-based arrangements. 29 The decrease in consulting revenue in 2023 was primarily due to lower consultant billable hours outside of North America and lower realization rates in North America. Gross profit 2023 2022 (Dollars in thousands) Gross Profit % Gross Profit % Change Pega Cloud $ 342,670 74 % $ 267,523 70 % $ 75,147 28 % Maintenance 306,264 92 % 295,576 93 % 10,688 4 % Subscription services 648,934 82 % 563,099 80 % 85,835 15 % Subscription license 405,019 99 % 363,421 99 % 41,598 11 % Subscription 1,053,953 88 % 926,520 87 % 127,433 14 % Perpetual license 10,034 99 % 19,118 99 % (9,084) (48) % Consulting (9,854) (4) % 3,572 2 % (13,426) * $ 1,054,133 74 % $ 949,210 72 % $ 104,923 11 % * not meaningful The gross profit change in 2023 was primarily due to a shift in the revenue mix. Also contributing to the change was: The increase in Pega Cloud gross profit percent in 2023 was primarily due to an increase in cost efficiency, particularly for hosting services, as Pega Cloud continues to grow and scale. The decrease in maintenance gross profit percent in 2023 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits as a result of an increase in headcount. The decrease in consulting gross profit percent in 2023 was primarily due to lower consultant billable hours outside of North America and lower realization rates in North America. Operating expenses 2023 2022 Change (Dollars in thousands) % of Revenue % of Revenue Selling and marketing $ 559,177 39 % $ 624,789 47 % $ (65,612) (11) % Research and development $ 295,512 21 % $ 294,349 22 % $ 1,163 % General and administrative $ 96,743 7 % $ 117,734 9 % $ (20,991) (18) % Restructuring $ 21,747 2 % $ 21,743 2 % $ 4 % * not meaningful The decrease in selling and marketing in 2023 was primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $59.5 million due to reduced headcount as we optimize our go-to-market strategy. For additional information, see "Note 12. Restructuring" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The decrease in general and administrative in 2023 was primarily due to a decrease of $20.7 million in legal fees and related expenses arising from proceedings outside the ordinary course of business. We expect to continue to incur additional costs for these proceedings. For additional information, see "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The restructuring in 2023 and 2022 was primarily due to our efforts to optimize our go-to-market organization. For additional information, see "Note 12. Restructuring" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Other income and expenses (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Change Foreign currency transaction (loss) gain $ (5,242) $ 4,560 $ (9,802) * Interest income 9,259 1,643 7,616 464 % Interest expense (6,876) (7,792) 916 12 % (Loss) on capped call transactions (1,348) (57,382) 56,034 98 % Other income, net 18,693 6,579 12,114 184 % $ 14,486 $ (52,392) $ 66,878 * * not meaningful The change in foreign currency transaction (loss) gain in 2023 was primarily due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency-denominated cash and receivables held by our subsidiary in the United Kingdom. The increase in interest income in 2023 was primarily due to an increase in market interest rates. The decrease in interest expense in 2023 was due to our repurchases of convertible senior notes. For additional information, see "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The change in (loss) on capped call transactions in 2023 was due to fair value adjustments for our capped call transactions. 30 The increase in other income, net in 2023, was due to a $7.9 million gain from repurchases of our convertible senior notes and a $10.9 million increase in the value of equity securities held in our venture investments portfolio. For additional information, see "Note 11. Debt" and "Note 13. Fair Value Measurements" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Provision for income taxes (Dollars in thousands) 2023 2022 Provision for income taxes $ 27,632 $ 183,785 Effective income tax rate 29 % 114 % The effective income tax rate in the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily driven by the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets in the U.S. and U.K. and the taxable income position in the U.S and the UK., partially offset by available tax credits and losses in those jurisdictions. On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EUs Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework that was supported by over 130 countries worldwide. The effective dates are January 1, 2024, and January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive. A significant number of countries are also implementing similar local legislation. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the Pillar Two Framework on future periods, pending legislative adoption by additional individual countries. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (in thousands) 2023 2022 Cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 217,785 $ 22,336 Investing activities (50,750) 13,075 Financing activities (81,963) (46,989) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 2,701 (3,333) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 87,773 $ (14,911) December 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Held in U.S. entities $ 263,453 $ 248,389 Held in foreign entities 159,885 48,832 Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities 423,338 297,221 Restricted cash 2,925 Total cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash $ 426,263 $ 297,221 We believe that our current cash, marketable securities, cash flow provided by operations, borrowing capacity, and ability to engage in capital market transactions will be sufficient to fund our operations, stock repurchases, and quarterly cash dividends for at least the next 12 months and to meet our known long-term cash requirements, including our convertible senior notes due March 1, 2025. Whether these resources are adequate to meet our liquidity needs beyond that period will depend on our future growth, operating results, and the investments needed to support our operations. We may utilize available funds or seek external financing if we require additional capital resources. If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate foreign funds, we may have to pay federal, state, and local income taxes as well as foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation. However, estimating the taxes we would have to pay is impracticable due to the complexity of income tax laws and regulations. For additional information, see risk factor "If it becomes necessary or desirable to repatriate our foreign cash balances to the United States, we may be subject to increased taxes, other restrictions, and limitations" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Operating activities The change in cash provided by operating activities in 2023 was primarily due to growth in client collections, the impact of our cost-efficiency initiatives, and lower legal fees and related costs arising from proceedings outside the ordinary course of business. We expect to continue to incur additional costs for these proceedings. For additional information, see "Note 12. Restructuring" and "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Investing activities The change in cash (used in) provided by investing activities in 2023 was primarily due to our increased investments in financial instruments and reduced investment in property and equipment as we optimize our office space. 31 Financing activities Debt financing In February 2020, we issued $600 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, which mature on March 1, 2025. In the year ended December 31, 2023, we paid $89 million to repurchase $97.7 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. As of December 31, 2023, we had $502 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes outstanding due on March 1, 2025. For additional information, see "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. In November 2019, and as since amended, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement (the Credit Facility) with PNC Bank, National Association. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had $27.3 million in outstanding letters of credit, reducing available borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility, but no outstanding cash borrowings. For additional information, see "Note 11. Debt" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Stock repurchase program Changes in the remaining stock repurchase authority: (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 $ 58,075 Authorizations (1) 1,925 December 31, 2023 $ 60,000 (1) On April 25, 2023, our Board of Directors extended the expiration date of our current share repurchase program from June 30, 2023 to June 30, 2024, and the amount of stock we are authorized to repurchase was increased to $60 million. Common stock repurchases Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Stock repurchase program 280 24,508 Tax withholdings for net settlement of equity awards 44 1,916 342 20,620 44 $ 1,916 622 $ 45,128 In 2023 and 2022, instead of receiving cash from the equity holders, we withheld shares with a value of $1.2 million and $14.3 million, respectively, for the exercise price of options. These amounts are not included in the table above. Dividends (in thousands) 2023 2022 Dividend payments to stockholders $ 9,964 $ 9,834 We intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share. However, the Board of Directors may terminate or modify the dividend program without prior notice. Contractual obligations As of December 31, 2023, our contractual obligations were: Payments due by period (in thousands) 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 and thereafter Other Total Convertible senior notes (1) $ 3,767 $ 504,154 $ $ $ $ $ 507,921 Purchase obligations (2) 138,662 134,825 126,637 138,208 990 539,322 Operating lease obligations 17,971 15,602 11,164 10,114 39,549 94,400 Venture investment commitments (3) 1,000 1,000 Liability for uncertain tax positions (4) 859 859 $ 161,400 $ 654,581 $ 137,801 $ 148,322 $ 40,539 $ 859 $ 1,143,502 (1) Includes principal and interest. (2) Represents the fixed amount owed for purchase obligations of software licenses, hosting services, and sales and marketing programs. (3) Represents the maximum funding under existing venture investment agreements. Our venture investment agreements generally allow us to withhold unpaid funds at our discretion. (4) We cannot reasonably estimate the timing of this cash outflow due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. A detailed discussion and analysis of the 2022 year-over-year changes can be found in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 32 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS Managements discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared following accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for annual financial reporting. Preparing these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and beliefs about what could occur in the future, given the available information. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, described in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 of this Annual Report, the following accounting policies are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and require the most subjective judgment. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If actual results differ significantly from managements estimates and projections, there could be a material effect on our financial statements. Revenue recognition Our client contracts typically contain promises by us to provide multiple products and services. Specifically, contracts associated with Pega Platform sales and other software applications, sold as licenses to use functional intellectual property or as a cloud-based solution, typically include consulting services. Determining whether such products and services within a client contract are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Accordingly, we review client contracts to identify all separate promises to transfer goods and services that would be considered performance obligations. Judgment is also required in determining whether an option to acquire additional products and services within a client contract represents a material right that the client would not receive without entering into that contract. A contract modification is a legally binding change to an existing contracts scope, price, or both. Contract modifications are reviewed to determine whether they should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. This determination requires significant judgment, which could impact the timing of revenue recognition. We typically account for contract modifications prospectively as a separate contract. The additional performance obligation(s) in our contract modifications are generally distinct and priced at their stand-alone selling price. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations, including options in contracts determined to represent a material right, based on each performance obligation's relative stand-alone selling price. Judgment is required in estimating stand-alone selling prices. We maximize the use of observable inputs by maintaining pricing analyses that consider our pricing policies, historical stand-alone sales when they exist, and historical renewal prices charged to clients. We have concluded that the stand-alone selling prices of certain performance obligations, specifically software licenses and Pega Cloud arrangements, are highly variable. In these instances, we estimate the stand-alone selling prices using the residual approach, which is determined based on the total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract. We update our stand-alone selling price analysis periodically, including a re-assessment of whether the residual approach used to determine the stand-alone selling prices for software licenses and Pega Cloud arrangements remains appropriate. Changes in the assumptions or judgments used in determining the performance obligations in client contracts and stand-alone selling prices could significantly impact the timing and amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information see "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies", "Note 4. Receivables, Contract Assets, And Deferred Revenue", and "Note 15. Revenue" in Item 8 of this Annual Report Goodwill and intangible assets impairment Our goodwill and intangible assets arise from our previous business acquisitions. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or as circumstances indicate its value may no longer be recoverable. We do not have any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30th. To assess if goodwill is impaired, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. If, based on the qualitative assessment, we consider it more-likely-than-not that our reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we perform a quantitative impairment test. An excess of carrying value over fair value would indicate that goodwill may be impaired. We periodically reevaluate our business and have determined that we have one operating segment and one reporting unit. If our assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges to reduce our goodwill's carrying value. Changes in the valuation of goodwill could materially impact our operating results and financial position. We evaluate our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such assets' carrying amount may not be recoverable. When evaluating potential impairment of these assets, we specifically consider whether any indicators of impairment are present, including, but not limited to: whether there has been a significant adverse change in the business climate that affects the value of an asset; whether there has been a significant change in the extent or way an asset is used; and 33 whether it is expected that the asset will be sold or disposed of before the end of its originally estimated useful life. If indicators of impairment are present, we compare the estimated undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate to the carrying value. The key assumptions of the cash flow model involve significant subjectivity. If such assets are impaired, an impairment is measured by the amount the assets carrying value exceeds its fair value. As of December 31, 2023, we had $81.6 million of goodwill and $7.0 million of intangible assets. Changes in the valuation of long-lived assets could materially impact our operating results and financial position. To date, there have been no impairments of goodwill or intangible assets. For additional information see "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 7. Goodwill And Other Intangible Assets" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Accounting for income taxes Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in applying accounting principles and complex tax laws. Accordingly, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact our financial statements. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The future realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on sufficient taxable income within the available carryback or carryforward periods. Changes in our valuation allowance impact income tax expense in the period of adjustment. Our deferred tax valuation allowance requires significant judgment and uncertainties, including assumptions about future taxable income based on historical and projected information. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe they are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we consider all available objective and verifiable negative and positive evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income (including the impact of enacted legislation), tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. The Company determined that the objectively and verifiable negative evidence outweighed the positive evidence, as such maintained a valuation allowance on our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits based on managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized in the financial statements. As a global company, we use significant judgment to calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. In the ordinary course of our business, transactions and calculations occur whose ultimate tax outcome cannot be certain. Some of these uncertainties arise due to transfer pricing for transactions with our subsidiaries, the determination of tax nexus, and tax credit estimates. In addition, the calculation of acquired tax attributes and the associated limitations are complex. We estimate our exposure to unfavorable outcomes related to these uncertainties and the probability of such outcomes. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, there is no guarantee that the final tax outcome will not differ from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, returns, and accruals. Such differences, or changes in estimates relating to potential differences, could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period such a determination is made. For additional information see "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 18. Income Taxes" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Capped call transactions As of December 31, 2023, we had $502.3 million in aggregate principal outstanding on our convertible senior notes. Additionally, we had Capped Call Transactions that covered 3.7 million shares of our common stock, the number of shares for which the Notes are convertible. These capped call transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. The capped call transactions are accounted for as derivative instruments and do not qualify for the Companys own equity scope exception in ASC 815 since, in some cases of early settlement, the settlement value calculated following the governing documents may not represent a fair value measurement. Applying the accounting framework for the Capped Call Transactions requires the exercise of judgment and the determination of the fair value of the Capped Call Transactions requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. The fair value of the Capped Call Transactions at the end of each reporting period is determined using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The valuation model uses various market-based inputs, including stock price, remaining contractual term, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. Management applies judgment when determining expected volatility. We consider the underlying equity securitys historical and implied volatility levels. As of December 31, 2023, a hypothetical 10% increase in our stock price would have increased the fair value of the capped call to $1.6 million, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in our stock price would have decreased the fair value of the capped call to $0.5 million. For additional information see "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies", "Note 11. Debt", and "Note 13. Fair Value Measurements" in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 34 Loss Contingencies We are subject to various claims, including claims with customers and vendors, pending and potential legal actions for damages, investigations relating to governmental laws and regulations, and other matters arising out of the normal conduct of our business. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict, and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. Moreover, it is common for such matters to be resolved over many years, during which time relevant developments and new information must be reevaluated at least quarterly to determine both the likelihood of potential loss and whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of possible loss. When a material loss is reasonably possible or probable, but a reasonable estimate cannot be made, disclosure of the proceeding is provided. Legal fees are recognized as incurred when the legal services are provided. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of the loss can be made. See "Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 20. Commitments And Contingencies" in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information.