ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, will, could, should, estimates, may, targets, strategies, intends to, projects, forecasts, guidance, likely, and usually, or variations of such words and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements deal with future events, and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, the timing of revenue recognition, management of our transition to a more subscription-based business model, variation in demand for our products and services, including among clients in the public sector, the impact of actual or threatened public health emergencies, such as the Coronavirus (COVID-19), reliance on third-party service providers, compliance with our debt obligations and debt covenants, the potential impact of our convertible senior notes and related Capped Call Transactions, reliance on key personnel, the continued uncertainties in the global economy, foreign currency exchange rates, the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks, security breaches and security flaws, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and costs associated with defending such rights, maintenance of our client retention rate, and management of our growth. These risks and others that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements are described further in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We develop, market, license, host, and support enterprise software applications that help organizations transform how they engage with their customers and process work across their enterprise. We also license our low-code Pega Platform for rapid application development to clients that wish to build and extend their business applications. Our cloud-architected portfolio of customer engagement and digital process automation applications leverages artificial intelligence (AI), case management, and robotic automation technology, built on our unified low-code Pega Platform, empowering businesses to quickly design, extend, and scale their enterprise applications to meet strategic business needs. Our target clients are Global 3000 organizations and government agencies that require applications to differentiate themselves in the markets they serve. Our applications achieve and facilitate differentiation by increasing business agility, driving growth, improving productivity, attracting and retaining customers, and reducing risk. We deliver applications tailored to our clients specific industry needs. Cloud Transition We are in the process of transitioning our business to primarily sell software through subscription arrangements, particularly Pega Cloud (Cloud Transition). Until we substantially complete our Cloud Transition, which we expect to occur in early 2023, we expect to continue to experience lower revenue growth and lower operating cash flow growth or negative cash flow. The actual mix of perpetual license, term license, and Pega Cloud in a given period can fluctuate based on client preferences. Additional information on the transitions impact can be found below and in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. COVID-19 As of September 30, 2020, COVID-19 has not had a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. The ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, impact on our clients and our sales cycles, and impact on our partners, vendors, or employees, all of which are uncertain and unpredictable. Our shift towards subscription-based revenue streams, the industry mix of our clients, our product mix, the fact that many of our clients are well-known and of large size, and the critical nature of our products to our clients may reduce or delay the impact of COVID-19 on our business. However, it is not possible to estimate the ultimate impact that COVID-19 will have on our business. See Coronavirus (COVID-19) under Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information. 17 Performance metrics We utilize several performance metrics to analyze and assess our overall performance, make operating decisions, and forecast and plan for future periods, including: Annual contract value (ACV) | Increased 21% since September 30, 2019 ACV represents the annualized value of our active contracts as of the measurement date. The contract's total value is divided by its duration in years to calculate ACV for term license and Pega Cloud contracts. Maintenance revenue for the quarter then ended is multiplied by four to calculate ACV for maintenance. Client Cloud ACV is composed of maintenance ACV and ACV from term license contracts. We believe the presentation of ACV on a constant currency basis enhances the understanding of our results, as it provides visibility into the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which are outside of our control. All periods shown reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of September 30, 2020. Remaining performance obligations (Backlog) | Increased 38% since September 30, 2019 Backlog represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized and includes deferred revenue and non-cancellable amounts expected to be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Year to date Pega Cloud revenue | Increased 55% since September 30, 2019 Pega Cloud revenue is revenue as reported under U.S. GAAP for cloud contracts. 18 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) and the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial reporting. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and expectations of what could occur in the future given the available information. For more information regarding our critical accounting policies, we encourage you to read the discussion in the following locations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019: Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies in