ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future financial performance and business plans, the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources, the continued payment of quarterly dividends, and the timing of revenue recognition and are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate, and managements beliefs and assumptions. In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by us or on our behalf. Words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, could, estimate, may, target, strategy, is intended to, project, guidance, likely, usually, or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Important factors that could cause actual future activities and results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, among others, variation in demand for our products and services and the difficulty in predicting factors affecting the timing of license revenue recognition; reliance on third party relationships; our beliefs and the timing of the completion of our analysis regarding the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, including its impact on income tax expense and deferred tax assets; the inherent risks associated with international operations and the continued uncertainties in the global economy; our continued effort to market and sell both domestically and internationally; foreign currency exchange rates; the financial impact of any future acquisitions; the potential legal and financial liabilities and reputation damage due to cyber-attacks and security breaches; and management of our growth. These risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements, are described more completely in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 as well as other filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements and there are no assurances that the matters contained in such statements will be achieved. Although subsequent events may cause our view to change, except as required by applicable law, we do not undertake and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements whether as the result of new information, future events or otherwise. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We develop, market, license, and support software applications for customer engagement and digital process automation, in addition to licensing our Pega Platform application development product for clients that wish to build and extend their own applications. The Pega Platform and applications help connect enterprises to their customers in real-time across channels, streamline business operations, and adapt to meet changing requirements. Our clients include Global 3000 companies and government agencies that seek to manage complex enterprise systems and customer service issues with greater agility and cost-effectiveness. Our strategy is to sell a client a series of licenses, each focused on a specific purpose or area of operations in support of longer term enterprise-wide digital transformation initiatives. Our license revenue is primarily derived from sales of our applications and Pega Platform. Our cloud revenue is derived from our hosted software application and Pega Platform environments. Our consulting revenue is primarily related to new license implementations. 20 Table of Contents Financial and Performance Metrics We adopted the new revenue recognition standard (ASC 606) effective January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method. See Note 2. New Accounting Pronouncements included in Item 1. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Total revenue $ 235,182 $ 256,309 $ (21,127 ) (8)% Net income $ 12,200 $ 52,963 $ (40,763 ) (77)% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.15 $ 0.65 $ (0.50 ) (77)% Cash provided by operating activities $ 55,655 $ 32,444 $ 23,211 72% The decrease in total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a large term license arrangement recognized in revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and a shift in client preferences to cloud arrangements. Cloud arrangements are generally recognized in revenue over the term of the cloud contract, as compared to other arrangements, which are generally recognized in revenue on the contract effective date. Annual Contract Value (ACV) (1) The change in ACV measures the growth and predictability of future cash flows from committed term, cloud, and maintenance arrangements as of the end of the particular reporting period. March 31, (in thousands) 2018 2017 Change Term and Cloud ACV $ 236,025 $ 193,004 $ 43,021 22% Maintenance ACV 258,100 234,852 $ 23,248 10% Total ACV $ 494,125 $ 427,856 $ 66,269 15% (1) ACV, as of a given date, is the sum of the following two components: The sum of the annual value of each term and cloud contract in effect on such date, with the annual value of a term or cloud contract being equal to the total value of the contract divided by the total number of years of the contract. Maintenance revenue reported for the quarter ended on such date, multiplied by four. 21 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) and the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial reporting. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and expectations of what could occur in the future given available information. Revenue We account for revenue in accordance with ASC 606. Our revenue recognition policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates. Our clients contracts typically contain promises to transfer multiple products and services. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to the distinct performance obligations based on relative stand-alone selling price. We estimate stand-alone selling price based on the prices charged to clients, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling price of our software licenses and cloud performance obligations are highly variable. Thus, we estimate stand-alone selling price for software licenses and cloud performance obligations using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price minus the stand-alone selling price of other performance obligations promised in the contract. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods. We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the selling price of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. Deferred Contract Costs Sales incentives paid by us are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a client. These costs are deferred and then amortized over the period of benefit, which is on average five years. We determined the period of benefit by taking into consideration our client contracts, our technology, and other factors. Except as described above, there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. For more information regarding our critical accounting policies, we encourage you to read the discussion contained in the following locations: Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Judgments in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies in