Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs and, as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for additional information. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks facing our company described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks described below in this Annual Report. The following summary should not be considered an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing us, and it should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 outbreak could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which make them difficult to predict. We have experienced losses in the past and may experience losses in the future. We compete in historically cyclical markets. Volatility in average selling prices may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Tariffs or other trade restrictions or taxes could have an adverse impact on our operations. We depend on a select number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. The markets that we serve are highly competitive. We may be unable to optimally match purchasing and production to customer demand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products and services. Our customers often require that our products undergo a lengthy and expensive process of evaluation and qualification without any assurance of net sales. If our OEM customers decide to utilize standardized solutions instead of our specialty products, our net sales and market share may decline. We depend on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers. We may be unable to adapt to technological change. We may not be able to maintain or improve our manufacturing efficiency. Disruption of our operations at any one of our manufacturing facilities would substantially harm our business. We are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. Contracts with the U.S. government may be terminated, cancelled of modified. Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us. Breaches of our security systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or business partners, could expose us to losses. Some of our offerings utilize open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products and services in a manner that could harm our business. Open source software may make it easier for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. We could be prevented from selling or developing our software if our licenses are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers could require us to pay substantial damages. We may need to raise additional funds, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may make future acquisitions and/or alliances, which involve numerous risks. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisition of Crees LED business. 15 We rely on third parties to sell a portion of our products and services. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. Legal proceedings and claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to pay royalties or obtain licenses to sell certain products. Changes in tax laws or potential adjustments by tax authorities in key jurisdictions could materially increase our tax expense. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards is limited. We could incur substantial costs or liabilities as a result of violations of environmental laws. Our worldwide operations may be disrupted by operational issues, natural disasters or other events. Risks Relating to Our International Operations Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations. We depend on Brazil markets for a significant portion of our sales. Our success in part depends on incentives in Brazilian laws for local manufacturing of electronics products. The elimination of or a reduction in the incentives for local manufacturing, or our inability to secure the benefits of these regulations, could significantly reduce our profitability for products in Brazil. We are subject to the taxation requirements of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and if we fail to qualify for certain tax incentives or to comply with local tax regulations, we may suffer financial losses. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are a holding company. If enacted, exchange controls may limit our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our foreign subsidiaries. High rates of inflation in the future would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political, economic and market conditions and the perception of risk in Brazil and emerging markets may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We may have limited legal recourse under the laws of China if disputes arise under our agreements with third parties. Risks Related to Our Debt Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and harm our ability to operate our business. Certain of our credit agreements may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Provisions in the 2026 Notes and Indenture (defined below) could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover of us. Our capped call transactions may affect the value of our publicly traded debt and ordinary shares. Risks Relating to Investments in Cayman Islands Companies We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, shareholders may have difficulty protecting their shareholder rights. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of U.S. courts for civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws against us in the Cayman Islands. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting estimates are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause our share price to fall. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit shareholders opportunity to sell their ordinary shares at a premium. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 16 General Risk Factors Worldwide economic and political conditions as well as other factors may adversely affect our operations and cause fluctuations in demand for our products. We and others are subject to a variety of laws, regulations, or industry standards that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Worldwide political conditions and threats of terrorist attacks may adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. Risks Related to Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 outbreak could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in substantial loss of life, economic disruption and government intervention worldwide. As a result, we experienced reduced sales volumes of certain product lines since early calendar 2020. It also disrupted our product development, marketing and corporate development activities. Our recently acquired LED Business experienced similar impacts from the pandemic from early in calendar 2020. If these conditions continue, or if we have an outbreak in any of our facilities, such reduced sales volumes may continue or worsen and we may, among other issues, experience, in any or all product lines, delays in product development, a decreased ability to support our customers, disruptions in sales and manufacturing activities and overall reduced productivity, each of which could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customer commitments and on our revenue and profitability. There can be no assurance that negative impacts resulting from the wide-ranging effects of COVID-19 will be offset by increased sales in subsequent periods. While initially we did not experience a major disruption in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the reduction of investment in new capacity due to the pandemic, coupled with strong demand to expand delivery and logistics, internet and cloud services as well as a rebound in economic conditions and general demand at a pace faster than expected has resulted in significant supply shortages that may impact our ability to manufacture products for our customers and may result in rising prices of the materials we need to manufacture our products. We may not be able to pass on these rising costs to our customers which could result in a negative impact to our results of operations. Furthermore, if there is a significant outbreak or if travel restrictions or stay-at-home or work remote or from home conditions or other governmental or voluntary restrictions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impact our suppliers ability to manufacture or deliver raw materials or provide key components or services, we could experience more delays or reductions in our ability to manufacture and ship products to our customers. While certain segments of our customer base are experiencing strong demand, the pandemic may negatively impact the demand for other segments for our customer base or those customers ability to manufacture their products, which could reduce their demand for our products or services. While we do not know and cannot quantify specific impacts, we expect we may be negatively affected if we continue to encounter manufacturing or supply chain problems, reductions in demand due to disruptions in the operations of our customers or their end customers, disruptions in local and global economies, volatility in the global financial markets, overall reductions in demand, restrictions on the export or shipment of our products or other COVID-19 ramifications. The impact of the effects of COVID-19 on our business may worsen in the future. We source our materials from parts of the world that have been affected by the virus, and if the impacts of the pandemic worsen in any of these geographies, it could have an adverse impact on our supply chain and our ability to get the materials we need to build our products. Renewed or expanded government shutdown orders or stay-at-home directives or individual decisions to reduce work and commercial activities, or an outbreak among or quarantine of the employees in any of our facilities, could cause significant interruptions to, or temporary closures of, our operations. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilities, a disruption to operations in any one facility could have a material impact on our business. In addition, COVID-19 has in the short-term, and, together with other disease outbreaks, may over the longer term, adversely affect the economies and financial markets within many countries and regions, including in the United States, Brazil, Asia and Europe, which are the primary geographic areas in which we conduct business, resulting in a significant economic downturn. 17 To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or the related global business and economic environment adversely affect our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening or exacerbating many of the other risks described in these Risk Factors. We are unable to accurately predict the impact that COVID-19 will have in future periods due to various uncertainties and future developments, including the ultimate geographic spread of the virus, the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, the occurrence of other epidemics, the imposition of related public health measures and travel and business restrictions or other actions that may be taken by governmental authorities in an effort to contain or treat the virus, all of which, together with the disruptions and other factors discussed above , could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, operating results, cash flows and financial condition and have a negative impact on our share price. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with an out-of-period adjustment identified in our second quarter of 2021, our management identified a material weakness in the design of internal controls that are meant to provide reasonable assurance that the timely accounting for import taxes, including the related financial statement disclosures, was recorded in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. While the identified material weakness has been remediated, we cannot provide assurance that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in future periods or that we will be successful in remediating any future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure