Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. As noted above in Item 1. Business, the financial results and operations of SMART Brazil have been presented as discontinued operations. While the divestiture of our SMART Brazil business continues to pose certain risks and uncertainties described below, unless otherwise noted, the financial results included in the risks below relate solely to our continuing operations and do not include the operations of SMART Brazil. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for additional information. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks facing our company described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks described below in this Annual Report. The following summary should not be considered an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing us, and it should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business Changing worldwide economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which make them difficult to predict. We have experienced losses in the past and may experience losses in the future. We compete in historically cyclical markets. Fluctuations in average selling prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Tariffs or other trade restrictions or taxes have had in the past, and could have in the future, an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a select number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Issues in the development of, our investment in, and use of AI or AI technologies, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in a material adverse impact on our business The markets that we serve are highly competitive. We may be unable to optimally match purchasing and production to customer demand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products and services. Our customers often require that our products undergo a lengthy and expensive process of evaluation and qualification without any assurance of net sales. If our OEM customers decide to utilize standardized solutions instead of our specialty products, our net sales and market share may decline. We depend on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers. We may be unable to adapt to technological change or maintain or improve our manufacturing efficiency. Disruption of our operations at any one of our manufacturing facilities would substantially harm our business. We are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us. Actual or perceived failures or breaches of our information and security systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or business partners, could expose us to losses. Actual or perceived non-compliance with applicable data privacy and security laws, or that of our customers, suppliers or business partners, could expose us to losses. 16 Some of our offerings utilize open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products and services in a manner that could harm our business or make it easier for competitors to enter our markets and compete with us. We could be prevented from selling or developing our software if our licenses are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. Contracts with the U.S. Government may be terminated, cancelled or modified. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers could require us to pay substantial damages. We may need to raise additional funds, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have in the past made, and may in the future make, acquisitions, investments and/or alliances, which involve numerous risks. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or the sale of our SMART Brazil business. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, impairment charges related to our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur liabilities relating to additional Brazilian withholding tax in connection with the sale of our Brazil business. The sale of our Brazil business could impair our ability to protect our trademarks and brand. If we are not able to maintain, develop and enhance our brand and our reputation, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to sell a portion of our products and services. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. Legal proceedings and claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to pay royalties or obtain licenses to sell certain products. The anticipated benefits of the U.S. Domestication may not be realized. Changes in tax laws or potential adjustments by tax authorities could materially increase our tax expense, and our ability to use our tax attributes is limited. We reversed the valuation allowance for a significant portion of our deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2023, and we may not be able to realize these assets in the future. Our deferred tax assets may also be subject to additional valuation allowances, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. Domestication may adversely impact our effective tax rate. We could incur substantial costs or liabilities as a result of violations of environmental laws. We may be unable to successfully manage environmental or social sustainability initiatives, in whole or in part, which could lead to less opportunity for us to have sustainability investors and partners and could negatively impact our reputation or options for capital acquisition. Our worldwide operations, and those of our suppliers, business partners and customers, may be disrupted by events outside of our control, including the effects of climate change, natural disasters, man-made disasters or other events, as well as societal and governmental responses to such events. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations. We are subject to the taxation requirements of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and if we fail to qualify for certain tax incentives or to comply with local tax regulations, we may suffer financial losses. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If enacted, exchange controls may limit our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our foreign subsidiaries. High rates of inflation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have limited legal recourse under the laws of China if disputes arise under our agreements with third parties. Risks Related to Our Debt Our indebtedness, and the terms of our debt instruments, including our credit agreement and the agreements governing our Convertible Senior Notes (as defined below) and capped call transactions, 17 could impair our financial condition, harm our ability to operate our business or hinder third-party acquisition attempts, and affect the value of our debt and common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and actual or perceived future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting estimates are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could delay, defer, discourage, or prevent a takeover attempt. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains exclusive forum provisions. General Risk Factors Worldwide economic and political conditions, including terrorist attacks as well as other factors, may adversely affect our operations and cause fluctuations in demand for our products. Risks Related to Our Business Changing worldwide economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The United States and global economies are facing increased levels of inflation, higher interest rates and potential recession. Adverse changes in economic conditions could harm our results of operations and financial condition in a variety of ways. For example, regional or global economic downturns could have an impact on the financial condition of our customers, particularly in challenging macroeconomic environments, and adversely affect demand for our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and potentially result in write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory. Inflation could also drive increases in our costs of revenue and operations, which we may not be able to successfully pass along to our customers. Higher interest rates could result in increased cash usage to service our variable rate indebtedness and increase the cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. Our results of operations fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which make them difficult to predict. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. As a result, our past quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain the margins we have achieved in recent periods. Our results of operations in any given quarter can be and have been influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: the loss of, significant reduction in, or variability in the timing of sales to, or demand from, one or more key customers, which can be affected by factors such as the timing of customer deployments or customer budget considerations; customer churn rates, including discounting and churn of significant customers from whom we derive a significant percentage of our revenue; changes in customer spending on our products and services; the timing, size and effectiveness of our investment in research and development for new and innovative products, including AI solutions; the timing, size and effectiveness of our marketing efforts; the acquisition of other companies or technologies, the failure to successfully integrate and operate them, or customers or suppliers negative reactions to them; a disruption in, or termination of, our supply relationship with one or more key suppliers; 18 supply shortages that may impact our ability to manufacture products for our customers and may result in rising prices of the materials we need to manufacture our products; our failure to develop new or enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner; the wind down or discontinuation of products, such as products offered through our Penguin Edge business; the timing of our entry into new contracts or timing of revenues recognized from our customers, which can be affected by factors such as singular large-scale projects in one period not recurring in subsequent periods or customer decisions as to the completion of delivery and system go-live events; and other factors described in this Risk Factors section. Due to the various factors mentioned above and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance. In one or more future periods, as has happened in the past, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline regardless of our operating performance. We have experienced losses in the past and may experience losses in the future. Our business has experienced quarterly and annual operating losses. For example, in 2024,we had a net loss of $52.5 million. Our ability to achieve or maintain profitability depends in part on revenue growth from, among other things, increased demand for our integrated memory solutions, products and related service offerings in our current markets, growth in our Advanced Computing and Optimized LED segments, the performance of our acquired companies, as well as our ability to expand into new markets, including those related to AI. We may not be successful in achieving the revenue and revenue growth necessary to achieve and maintain profitability. Moreover, as we continue to expend substantial funds for research and development projects, enhancements to sales and marketing efforts, integration of acquisitions and to otherwise operate our business, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitability on an annual or quarterly basis even if our revenue does grow. We compete in historically cyclical markets. Historically, the markets in which we compete have been highly cyclical and have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product lifecycles of both component suppliers and electronic equipment manufacturers and/or declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of selling prices and inventory values. Our business depends on the continued growth of technology utilization, the electronics industry and on end-user demand for our customers products. Economic downturns often have had an adverse effect upon manufacturers and end-users of electronics products. The timing of new product developments, the lifecycle of existing electronics products and the level of acceptance and growth of new products can also affect demand for our products. Downturns in the markets we serve could have a significant negative impact on the demand for our products. Additionally, due to changing conditions, our customers have experienced and may in the future experience periods of excess inventory that could have a significant adverse impact on our sales. During a downturn in any of the markets that we serve, there is also a higher risk that some of our trade receivables become delinquent or even uncollectible and that our inventory would decrease in value. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industries. In particular, it is difficult to predict how long and to what levels any industry upturn or downturn, or general economic strength or weakness, will last or develop. Reduced demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in average selling prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The markets for our Integrated Memory products have historically been characterized by declines in average selling prices. Our average selling prices may decline due to several factors, including general declines in demand for our products and excess supply of DRAM and flash memory components, including as a result of overcapacity. In the past, transitions to smaller design geometries and other factors causing overcapacity in memory markets have led to significant increases in the worldwide supply of memory components. If not accompanied by increases in demand, supply increases usually result in significant declines in component prices and, in turn, declines in the average selling prices and profit margins of our products. During periods of oversupply, our net sales may decline 19 if we fail to increase sales volume of existing products or to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset declines in selling prices. Our efforts to increase sales or to introduce new products to offset the impact of declines in average selling prices may not be successful. Furthermore, our competitors and customers also impose significant pricing pressures on us. Declines in average selling prices have in the past had, and may again in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Declines in average selling prices also might enable OEMs to pre-install higher density memory modules into new systems at existing price points, thereby reducing the demand for future memory upgrades. In addition, our net sales and gross profit may be negatively affected by shifts in our product mix during periods of declining average selling prices. Tariffs or other trade restrictions or taxes have had in the past, and could have in the future, an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We source a significant portion of our materials from, manufacture products in, and sell products in foreign countries, including China, making the price and availability of our merchandise susceptible to international trade risks and other international conditions. The United States has implemented new tariffs and significant increases and changes to existing tariffs, including on goods from China, and has proposed further changes and new tariffs. In response to such tariffs announced by the United States, other countries have imposed or are considering imposing new or increased tariffs on certain imports from the United States. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and other countries with respect to tariffs, trade policies, taxes and other related government regulations, which have and will likely to continue to evolve rapidly and unpredictably, and we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, current tariffs will continue or trade policies will change in the future or their impact on our business. Economic and political uncertainty caused by the U.S. tariffs imposed on goods from China and other countries by the current administration, and any corresponding tariffs and related retaliatory actions or currency devaluations from China or such other countries in response, has negatively impacted and may in the future negatively impact our business. In addition, many of our customers also rely on international trade and may experience impacts similar to our own, which could in turn affect their relationship with us. Furthermore, the imposition of additional tariffs, duties, border adjustment taxes or other trade restrictions by the United States have resulted in the adoption of additional or increased tariffs or other trade restrictions by other countries. Tariffs have in the past increased, and may in the future, increase our cost of materials, particularly within our LED business, and have in the past caused us and may in the future cause us to increase prices to our customers, which we believe may have reduced or may in the future reduce demand for our products. Our price increases or other efforts to address these risks may not be sufficient to fully offset the impact of tariffs and may result in lowering our margin on products sold. The volatility and unpredictability of international trade policies and conditions add further complexity to our operations, making it challenging to forecast and plan effectively. The adoption and expansion of trade restrictions and tariffs, quotas and embargoes, the occurrence or threat of a trade war or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies, has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers and the world and U.S. economies, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a select number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our principal customers include global distributors, enterprise users, government agencies and OEMs that compete in the computing, networking, communications, storage, aerospace, mobile, industrial automation, Internet of Things (IoT), industrial IoT, government, military and lighting markets. In 2025, 2024 and 2023, sales to our ten largest end customers (including sales to contract manufacturers or ODMs at the direction of such end customers) accounted for 66%, 58% and 60% of net sales, respectively. In 2025, 2024 and 2023, we had two, one and one customers account individually for over 10% of our net sales. In some cases, our customers also compete with us and/or are our major suppliers. We expect that sales to relatively few customers, including distributors in our Optimized LED business, will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these customers or any of our other customers will continue to utilize our products or our services at current levels, or at all, since sales of our products are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders and are not based on long-term supply agreements. The select number of customers from whom we derive a significant percentage of our sales, and the timing and volume of customer orders and renewals, some of which are substantial, may be significantly reduced due to several factors including discounting, churning of significant customers, incorporating work in-house, or reduced spending due to economic pressures among others. Although we have master agreements with some of our 20 customers, these agreements govern the terms and conditions of the relationship and do not typically contain requirements for them to purchase minimum volumes. Because of the uncertainty of the timing, volume and renewals or non-renewals of orders from our customers, sales to our customers have varied from period to period and may vary significantly in the future, and our ability to forecast our sales have been, and may in the future be, difficult. Our customer concentration may also subject us to perceived or actual bargaining leverage that our key customers may have, given their relative size and importance to us. Since a large percentage of our sales is to a small number of customers that are primarily large enterprises or OEMs, these customers are able to exert, have exerted and we expect will continue to exert, pressure on us to make concessions on price and on terms and conditions which can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our key customers seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our services include point-in-time services, such as design and implementation, as well as longer-term managed services that are typically subject to renewal after an initial term of a year or sometimes longer. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest customers and the financial and operational success of these customers. Furthermore, many of our customer and supplier markets are characterized by a limited number of large companies. Industry consolidation and company failures could decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. The decrease in the number of potential significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and thus our profit margins. If we were to lose one of our key customers or have a key customer cancel a key program or otherwise significantly reduce its volume of business with us or fail to pay us in full for the goods or services purchased from us, our sales and profitability would be materially reduced and our business and financial condition would be seriously harmed. Issues in the development of, our investment in, and use of AI or AI technologies, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, reputational harm, liability or other adverse consequences to our business operations. We are making significant investments in AI initiatives, including designing, building, deploying and managing AI and HPC infrastructure. AI and accelerated computing technologies, markets and related demand trends are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition from other companies, including companies with greater resources than ours, and an evolving regulatory landscape. If we do not develop and timely offer AI solutions or keep pace with the product offerings of our competitors, or if demand for such products does not grow as anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. We may incur significant costs, invest substantial resources, and experience delays without achieving a return on investment or capitalizing on opportunities presented by AI. The introduction of AI technologies into our internal business practices and the use of our proprietary software to manage AI compute environments may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, confidentiality or security risks, ethical concerns, or other complications that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Existing laws and regulations may apply to us or our customers or partners in new ways, and new laws and regulations may be instituted, the effects of which are difficult to predict. The intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, surrounding AI technologies has not been fully addressed by courts or national or local laws or regulations, and any use or adoption of third-party AI technologies into our products and services may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. The evolution of the technology industry, including the formation of strategic alliances among major technology companies in the AI sector, can result in rapid and significant changes to market dynamics and the competitive landscape. Failure to anticipate, adapt to, or successfully implement business strategies in response to such industry shifts could affect our ability to serve our customers evolving needs, maintain competitive positioning and achieve our business objectives, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are working to incorporate generative AI technologies for use by our personnel for internal business purposes, such as software coding tools. These generative AI technologies could generate output that is infringing, and we could be subject to claims or lawsuits, including for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights as a 21 result of the output of such generative AI technologies. While some providers of AI technologies offer to indemnify their end users for any copyright or other intellectual property infringement claims arising from the output of their AI technologies, we may not be successful in adequately recovering our losses in connection with such claims. In addition, we may experience difficulties in enforcing the intellectual property rights, to the extent we seek to protect output generated using generative AI technologies. The United States Copyright Office has previously denied copyright protection for content generated by AI technologies, and the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the USPTO) has similarly stated that an AI tool cannot be an inventor of a patent, rendering it impossible to obtain patent protection for inventions created solely by AI technologies. The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom has reached a similar conclusion, stating that AI systems cannot be named as an inventor for UK patent law purposes. The rapid evolution of AI technologies and regulations requires the application of resources to help to ensure that AI is implemented responsibly in order to minimize unintended, harmful impact. There is a risk that AI technologies could produce inaccurate or misleading content or other discriminatory or unexpected results or behaviors, such as hallucinatory behavior that can generate irrelevant, nonsensical, or factually incorrect results, all of which could harm our reputation, business, or customer relationships. The development and use of AI technologies presents emerging ethical and social issues, and if we enable or offer solutions that draw scrutiny or controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on customers or on society as a whole, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm and/or legal liability. The markets that we serve are highly competitive. The markets that we serve are characterized by intense competition. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition, broader product lines, lower cost structures and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies, such as generative AI, or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in better financial and marketing positions from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular product or service standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services, and may be able to deliver competitive products and services at a lower price than we can. In addition to competing with certain portions of our product and services offerings, certain of our competitors are also our significant customers, suppliers, or both. Finally, Chinas stated national policy to be a global leader in all segments of the semiconductor industry by 2030 has resulted in and may continue to cause increased competitive capability in China. Across all of our markets, we also expect to face new companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative offerings, which may be less costly or provide additional features. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products or developing solutions internally. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors and/or suppliers or third parties to increase the ability of their offerings to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors and/or suppliers may emerge and acquire significant market share. Competitive pressure has led in the past and may continue to lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower net sales and lower profit margins which could negatively impact our financial performance. Our efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position, or our failure to do so, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to optimally match purchasing and production to customer demand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In most cases we do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers, but instead we work with our customers to develop non-binding estimates or forecasts of future requirements. Utilizing these non-binding estimates or forecasts, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production scheduling, component purchasing and procurement commitments, inventory levels, product development or customization, personnel 22 and production facility needs and other resource requirements. Customers may cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated, often with little or no notice to us, and generally without penalty, which can result in us having underutilized resources or excess materials. Conversely, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and can reduce profit margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers demands. As many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand has had in the past, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have had in the past and expect we could again have in the future, inventory write-downs and/or write-offs due to obsolescence, excess quantities (including due to decreased demand) and declines in market value below our costs. In particular, if product obsolescence causes product demand to decrease or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our profit margins and our profitability. Any one or more of these occurrences could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products and services. The markets that we serve are subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, frequent new product introductions and feature enhancements, changes in end-user requirements, evolving industry standards, and frequent innovations and disruptions in the markets in which we compete for products and services. Our ability to successfully compete and to continue to grow our business depends in significant part upon our ability to develop, introduce and sell new and enhanced products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to anticipate and respond to changing customer requirements and competition. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new and innovative products, including AI solutions. In addition, we have invested and expect to continue to invest significant time and capital into developing infrastructure, employee training and marketing efforts to expand our services offerings. However, there can be no guarantee that our evolving business strategy or our efforts will be successful or that our new products or services will gain market acceptance, be price competitive or result in any significant increase in our net sales. If these investments fail to provide the expected returns, then such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays and unanticipated expenses in the development and introduction of new products and services. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards, or delays in the development, introduction and qualification of new products or services, could significantly reduce our return on investment as well as our net sales, provide a competitor a first-to-market advantage and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share, or cause our customers to cancel their orders (generally without penalty), all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers often require that our products undergo a lengthy and expensive process of evaluation and qualification without any assurance of net sales. Our products are often incorporated into customers systems at the design stage. We rely on OEM and other customers to select our product designs, which we refer to as design wins, and then to qualify our products for production buys. With OEM and other customers, we often incur significant expenditures in the development of new products without any assurance that the customer will select our products for purchase. Furthermore, even if a customer designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that they will qualify or use our product in production, that the customers product will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant orders as a result of that design win or qualification. Generally, our customers are not obligated to purchase our products even if we achieve a design win. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our customers systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because the qualification process is both product-specific and platform-specific, our existing customers sometimes require us to re-qualify our products, or to qualify our new products, for use in new platforms or applications, which can be time-consuming and cause reductions in our net sales during the design and qualification period. Likewise, when our suppliers discontinue production of components, it may be necessary for us to design and qualify new products for our customers. Such customers may require of us or we may decide to purchase an estimated quantity of discontinued components necessary to help to ensure a steady supply of 23 existing products until products with new components can be qualified. Purchases of this nature may not be available, or they may affect our liquidity. Additionally, our estimation of quantities required during a transition may be incorrect, which could adversely impact our results of operations through lost revenue opportunities or charges related to excess and obsolete inventory. We must devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualify our products with existing and prospective customers in anticipation of sales. Significant delays in the qualification process could result in an inability to keep up with rapid technological change or new, competitive technologies. If we delay or do not succeed in qualifying a product with an existing or prospective customer, we will not be able to sell that product to that customer, which may result in us losing potential revenue and holding excess or obsolete inventory, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our OEM customers decide to utilize standardized solutions instead of our specialty products, our net sales and market share may decline. Many of our specialty products are specifically designed for our OEM customers systems or products. In an effort to reduce costs, a number of our OEM customers design standardized or commodity components, modules or subsystems into their products. Although we also manufacture standard components, modules and subsystems, an increase in such efforts by our customers could reduce the demand for our higher priced specialized or customized solutions, which in turn would have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, when customers utilizing custom solutions choose to adopt a standard instead of custom or specialty components, modules or subsystems, new competitors producing standard components, modules or subsystems may take a portion of our customers business previously purchased from us. We depend on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers. We are dependent upon a small number of sole or limited source suppliers for certain materials, including certain critical components or subsystems, we use in manufacturing our products. Purchases from our two largest suppliers were $0.6 billion, $0.4 billion and $0.5 billion in each of 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Certain of our suppliers also compete with us in one or more of our markets. We purchase almost all of our materials from our suppliers on a purchase order basis and generally do not have long-term commitments from suppliers. Our suppliers are not required to supply us with any minimum quantities, and there is no assurance that our suppliers will supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. The markets in which we operate have in the past experienced, are currently experiencing, and may in the future experience, shortages, long lead times and price fluctuations in certain materials, including certain critical components and raw materials that we use in manufacturing our products. These shortages cause some suppliers to place their customers, including us, on supply allocation. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the materials that we need to fill customer orders in a timely fashion or at all. If any of our suppliers experience quality control or intellectual property infringement problems, this may further impact our ability to fill customer orders. Furthermore, our products that utilize that suppliers materials may be disqualified by one or more of our customers and we may not be able to fill their orders. A disruption in or termination of our supply relationship with any of our significant suppliers or our inability to develop relationships with new suppliers, if required, would cause delays, disruptions or reductions in product manufacturing and shipments or require product redesigns which could damage relationships with our customers, increase our costs, reduce our margins or increase the prices we need to charge for our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are increasing expectations in various jurisdictions that companies monitor the environmental and social performance of their suppliers, including compliance with a variety of labor practices, as well as consider a wider range of potential environmental and social matters, including the end-of-life considerations for products. Compliance can be costly, require us to establish or augment programs to diligence or monitor our suppliers, or to design supply chains to avoid certain regions altogether. Failure to comply with such regulations can result in fines, reputational damage, or import ineligibility for our products or product components, or otherwise adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 We may be unable to adapt to technological change. The industries in which we conduct business are characterized by constant and rapid technological changes and product obsolescence. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If the lifecycle of a product is shortened as a result of the introduction of a new technology, we may be forced to transition our manufacturing capabilities to a new configuration more quickly than originally planned. This can result in increased capital and other expenditures and decreases in demand for the older technology products. As a result, we may be required to record additional obsolescence charges or an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. When new technologies are introduced, our capacity and the capacity of our suppliers to manufacture the new products often cannot meet the demand or expected timelines, and product shortages or delays can arise. If we or our suppliers cannot support such demand or expected timelines, we may not be able to fill customer orders or participate in new markets as they emerge, and our relationships with customers and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to maintain or improve our manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing efficiency can significantly affect our results of operations, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive and may experience higher than acceptable defect rates. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, increased defect rates, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; successfully transition to more advanced process technologies; continue to reduce test times; ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes across our facilities; achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. Disruption of our operations at any one of our manufacturing facilities would substantially harm our business. We rely on a limited number of production facilities for each of our various product lines. A disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and consequently our customer relations and our business. Such a disruption could result from, among other things, severe or chronic weather conditions, including in connection with climate change, local outbreaks of infectious diseases, sustained process abnormalities, government intervention, waste disposal issues, power failures or other circumstances, or from ramp-up related challenges, such as obtaining sufficient raw materials, hiring of qualified factory personnel, installation and efficient operation of new equipment and management and coordination of our logistics networks within our global operations. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with business interruption, however, our insurance may not cover all or any part of a particular loss. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilities, a disruption to operations, or a loss that is in excess of, or 25 excluded from, our insurance coverage could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. With respect to a portion of our business, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of government contracts in the United States and other countries. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations by us, our employees, others working on our behalf, a supplier or a venture partner, could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. A termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. Additionally, if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. We could also suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us. If our products are defectively manufactured, contain defective components or are used in defective or malfunctioning systems, we could be subject to warranty and product liability claims and product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices. For example, certain of our products are used in transportation safety devices in the rail industry. These products are certified by independent auditors to safety integrity level 4 standards. In the event that our products fail to perform as expected, accidents and significant losses could occur. While our contracts for the sale of these products typically contain disclaimers, there can be no assurance that we would be insulated from liability in the event of an accident. While we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be adequate to satisfy claims made against us. We also may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Investigations, warranty and product liability claims and product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept product returns in circumstances where we are not contractually obligated to do so to maintain good relations with our customers. Accepting product returns may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Further, quality issues in customer installations have occurred in the past and could occur in the future, which have in the past affected, and could possibly affect in the future, customer relationships, demand for products and our reputation. Quality issues and potential impact to our reputation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Actual or perceived failures or breaches of our information and security systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or business partners, could expose us to losses. We rely on computer systems, hardware, software, technology infrastructure and online sites and networks for both internal and external operations that are critical to our business (collectively, IT Systems). We own and manage some of these IT Systems but also rely on third parties for a range of IT Systems and related products and services. Additionally, we sometimes provide network connections and system access to customers and vendors to facilitate product builds and collaborative development processes, which creates potential additional attack vectors and potential additional entry points for cybersecurity incidents that could compromise our systems or data. We and certain of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents, though none have materially impacted our Company, including our operations or financial condition. There can be no guarantee that future cyberattacks or events, whether originating from us, our suppliers or our customers, will not materially impact our Company generally or our IT Systems or data or that of critical service providers specifically. We face numerous and evolving cybersecurity risks that threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our IT Systems and data. Those risks include data security incidents, cybersecurity events, data breaches, ransomware 26 attacks or other compromises of the IT Systems we or that our vendors use to provide services or process data on our behalf, which may lead to compromised network security and misappropriation or compromise of our information or that of third parties, system disruptions or lead to shutdowns. Cyberattack actors include criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, and may involve industrial espionage, employee malfeasance and human or technological error. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers and other third parties to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data. The risk of such attacks includes attempted breaches not only of our own products, services and systems, but also those of customers, contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. Our products, services and systems may be used in critical company, customer, government or other third-party operations, or involve the storage, processing and transmission of sensitive data, including valuable intellectual property, classified information, other proprietary or confidential data, regulated data and personal information of employees, customers and others. In our on-demand and hosted solutions, we process, store and transmit data provided by our customers, which may include sensitive and personal data. We also manage, store, transmit and otherwise process various sensitive personal or confidential data related to our company and our employees in the regular course of business. Successful breaches, employee malfeasance or human or technological error could materially impact our business due to, for example, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss or destruction of company, customer, government or other third party data or systems; theft of sensitive, regulated, classified or confidential data including personal information and intellectual property; the loss of access to critical data or systems through distributed denial-of-service attacks, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware attacks, supply chain attacks, destructive attacks or other means; and business delays, service or system disruptions or denials of service. Further, hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain significant defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could materially disrupt the operation of such systems. Given the nature of complex systems, software and services like ours, and the scanning tools that we deploy across our networks, infrastructure and products, we regularly identify and track security vulnerabilities. We are unable to comprehensively guarantee patches or confirm that measures are in place to mitigate all such vulnerabilities, or that patches will be applied before vulnerabilities are exploited by a threat actor. If attackers are able to exploit critical vulnerabilities before patches are installed or mitigating measures are implemented, significant compromises could materially impact our and our customers systems and data. The information technology systems we and our vendors use are vulnerable to outages, breakdowns or other damage or interruption from service interruptions, system malfunction, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. For example, in July 2024, a software update by CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. (CrowdStrike), a cybersecurity technology company, caused widespread crashes of Windows systems into which it was integrated. Although we have not experienced any material impacts as a result of the CrowdStrike software update, we have and expect to continue in the future to experience other third-party software- and service-related incidents and/or operational disruptions, which may materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cyberattacks are expected to accelerate on a global basis in both frequency and magnitude as threat actors are becoming increasingly sophisticated in using techniques and tools (including AI) that circumvent controls, evade detection and even remove forensic evidence. Further, the use of AI technologies by us, our customers, suppliers, and third-party service providers, among others, introduces unique and/or unknown vulnerabilities. As a result, there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to protect against cyberattacks, or our cybersecurity risk management program and processes, will be fully implemented, complied with or sufficient to identify, detect or prevent material consequences arising from such attacks in the future. In addition, we have acquired and continue to acquire companies with cybersecurity vulnerabilities and/or unsophisticated security measures, which exposes us to significant cybersecurity, operational, and financial risks. The costs to address product defects or any of the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. Remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. In addition, breaches of our IT Systems or security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third parties could expose us, our customers or other third parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this 27 information, result in regulatory enforcement, litigation and potential liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. Further, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers and other vendors whose own security vulnerabilities or problems may have similar detrimental effects on us. Actual or perceived non-compliance with applicable data privacy and security laws, or that of our customers, suppliers or business partners, could expose us to losses. We are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the United States and other countries relating to the collection, use, transmission, processing and security of user and other data. Our ability to execute transactions and to possess, process, transmit and use personal information and data in conducting our business, for example with respect to our marketing efforts, which include email marketing and telemarketing, subjects us to legislative and regulatory obligations that, among other things, may require us to expend time, financial and other resources to monitor and interpret ever-evolving and complex data privacy and security laws. In particular, certain states have adopted new or modified privacy and security laws and regulations that may apply to our business, for example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) imposes obligations on businesses that process personal information of California residents. Among other things, the CCPA: requires disclosures to such residents about the data collection, use and disclosure practices of covered businesses; provides such individuals expanded rights to access, delete and correct their personal information and opt-out of certain transfers of personal information; requires covered businesses enter into specific contractual provisions with service providers that process California resident personal information on the covered businesss behalf; and provides such individuals with a private right of action and statutory damages for data breaches. The enactment of the CCPA has prompted a wave of similar laws being passed in the United States, which creates the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state laws. For example, since the CCPA went into effect, comprehensive privacy statutes that share similarities with the CCPA are now in effect and enforceable in numerous states. We cannot predict the full impact of these laws on our business or operations. Many other states are currently reviewing or proposing the need for greater regulation of the collection, sharing, use and other processing of information related to individuals for marketing purposes or otherwise, and there remains increased interest at the federal level as well. Additionally, other jurisdictions outside of the United States have or have recently enacted privacy and cybersecurity laws, such as the United Kingdom and the European Union that have enacted the UK General Data Protection Regulation and the EU General Data Protection Regulation respectively and Brazil which has enacted the Lei Geral de Proteo de Dados, creating the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different laws. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols under applicable laws, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations. Despite such expenditures, we may face regulatory and other legal actions in the event of perceived or actual non-compliance with such applicable obligations. Many of these laws would also require us to notify regulators and customers, employees or other individuals of any data security breach as described above. The various data privacy enactments impose significant obligations and compliance with these requirements depends in part on how particular regulators apply and interpret them. In addition, as a contractor to the Department of Defense (DoD), we are contractually required to protect controlled unclassified information and comply with DoD cybersecurity requirements, including controls specified in the National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171. The DoD has implemented certain information security requirements and obligations relating to the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC). When incorporated into our contracts or solicitations, we will need to comply with the CMMC and flow down such requirements, as appropriate, to our vendors and suppliers. The laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy and data security are in some cases relatively new and the interpretation and application of these laws are uncertain. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with data privacy laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and other requirements could result in proceedings or actions against us by individuals, consumer rights groups, government agencies or others. We could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims and, if found liable, pay significant damages or fines or be required to make changes to our business. Further, these proceedings and any subsequent adverse outcomes may subject us to significant negative publicity and an erosion of trust. If any of these events were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 28 Some of our offerings utilize open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products and services in a manner that could harm our business. Many of our Advanced Computing offerings, including Linux-based products and Penguin Solutions ClusterWare products, incorporate software components licensed under various open source licenses. Open source software is made available under licenses that in some instances may subject us to certain unfavorable conditions, including requirements that we offer our proprietary software, or portions of our proprietary software, which incorporates or links to such open source software, for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using such open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the applicable open source licenses. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. We could face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could implicate aspects of our proprietary code. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available to the public, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services. Such claims may require us to re-engineer our offerings to avoid an undesirable open source license or infringement, which may be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, some open source software may include generative AI technologies or other software that incorporates or relies on generative AI models or other AI technologies. The use of such software may expose us to risks as the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyrights, surrounding AI technologies, has not been fully interpreted by courts or national or local laws or regulations, and any use or adoption of third-party AI technologies into our products and services may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation. In addition, the use or modification of third-party generative AI models that are made available under an open source or similar license could introduce inaccuracies or vulnerabilities that we are unable to anticipate, detect, or control. If the licensor for such generative AI technologies developed their models by training on data that was inaccurate, biased or for which it did not have the appropriate rights, we could be subject to claims or lawsuits, including for infringement of third-party intellectual property. In addition, our usage of open-source generative AI technologies may require us to license our data or intellectual property to third parties and limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights or proprietary data. In addition to risks related to open source license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. Increased risks arise in part because open source licensors generally do not provide updates, warranties, support, indemnities or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code, including with respect to security vulnerabilities where open source software may be more susceptible. These third-party open source providers could experience service outages, data loss, privacy breaches, cyberattacks, ransomware and other events relating to the applications and services they provide that could diminish the utility of these services, which could harm our business as a result. To the extent that Advanced Computing offerings depend upon the successful operation and continued updates and support of the open source software it uses, any undetected errors or defects in this open source software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of Advanced Computing offerings, delay the release of new product solutions, result in a failure of our offerings and injure our reputation. If open source programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. We cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. Moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage and, if not addressed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also use AI technologies, including tools provided by third parties, to develop or assist in the development of our own software code. While use of such tools could make our development process more efficient, AI technologies have sometimes generated content that is substantially similar to open source code on which the AI tool was trained or which is used by the AI tool. If the AI technologies we use generate code that is the same or too similar to open source code, we risk not properly attributing the author of such code, we may not 29 be abiding by the applicable licensing requirements and we may lose protection of our own proprietary code that is commingled with such code. Open source software may make it easier for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. One of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions or acquire a smaller business that has developed open source offerings that compete with our offerings, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. In addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Additionally, any failure by us to provide high-quality technical support, or the perception that we do not provide high-quality technical support, could harm our reputation and negatively impact our ability to sell subscriptions for our open source offerings to existing and prospective customers. If we are unable to differentiate our open source offerings from those of our competitors or compete effectively with other open source offerings, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In our Advanced Computing business, we regularly contribute software source code under open source licenses and have made other technology we developed available under other open licenses, and we include open source software in our products. For example, we have contributed certain technology related to our products to the OCP Foundation, a non-profit entity that shares and develops such information with the technology community, under the Open Web Foundation License. As a result of our open source contributions and the use of open source in our products, we may license or be required to license or disclose code and/or innovations that turn out to be material to our business and may also be exposed to increased litigation risk. As a result of making certain of our technology available to third parties, the value of our brands and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our products, services and methods of operations which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Likewise, if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brands and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our products, services and methods of operations. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We could be prevented from selling or developing our software if our licenses are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. A number of our Advanced Computing offerings have been developed and licensed under the GNU General Public License and similar open source licenses. These licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. It is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. Additionally, if any of the third-party open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, then our ability to distribute or develop all or a portion of our offerings could be adversely impacted. In addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may become incompatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from distributing the software code subject to the modified license. Contracts with the U.S. Government may be terminated, cancelled or modified. Certain of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. Under some contracts, the government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decision by a government agency not to 30 exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail any major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. We may experience periodic performance issues under certain of our contracts. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation and our results of operations and financial condition. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from various matters including, without limitation, product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in, or usage of, our products or the products of our suppliers. In addition, we currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement or alleged infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We periodically have to respond to claims and may have to litigate indemnification obligations in the future. Indemnification obligations could require us to expend significant amounts of money to defend claims and/or to pay damages or settlement amounts. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products; however, our insurance may not cover all or any part of a claim asserted against us. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement in most instances. A claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional funds, which we may seek to obtain through, among other avenues, public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our then existing stockholders, such as was the case in connection with the issuance of the series of 200,000 shares of preferred stock of Penguin Solutions Delaware, par value $0.03 per share, designated as convertible preferred stock (the Issued CPS) as described in more detail in PART II