Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and are believed by us to have a reasonable basis, including, without limitation, managements examination of historical operating trends, information contained in our records, and information we have obtained from other parties. However, we can offer no assurance that our expectations, beliefs, or projections will be realized, accomplished or achieved. Forward-looking statements within this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statements to reflect changes in events or circumstances that may subsequently occur. Users of this Form 10-K are cautioned that various factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements found within this Form 10-K and that they should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. In addition, all forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether made by us or on our behalf, are expressly qualified by the risk factors provided in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Specific industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled Glossary of Terms and Acronyms, found below the Table of Contents. Business Overview Photronics, Inc. (and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as Photronics, the Company, we, our, or us) is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of photomasks, which are high precision photographic quartz or glass plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of ICs and FPDs and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and FPD substrates during the fabrication of ICs, a variety of FPDs and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical and optical components. We have eleven manufacturing facilities, which are located in Taiwan (3), China (2), South Korea (1), the United States (3), and Europe (2). Our principal executive offices are located at 15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut, 06804, telephone (203) 775-9000. Our website address is http://www.photronics.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Forms 10-K, Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on, or incorporated into, our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Photronics. Segment We operate as a single reporting segment as a manufacturer of photomasks, which are high precision quartz or glass plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits for use in the fabrication of ICs and FPDs. In accordance with the ASC 280 Segment Reporting Topic of the ASC, the Companys chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer, who reviews operating results to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance for the entire Company. Existing guidance, which is based on a management approach to segment reporting, establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products and services, major customers, and the countries in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. All material operating units qualify for aggregation under Segment Reporting due to their similar customer base and similarities in: economic characteristics; nature of products and services; and procurement, manufacturing and distribution processes. Since the Company operates in one segment, all financial information required by Segment Reporting can be found in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Industry We manufacture photomasks, which are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and FPD substrates. The photomasks we manufacture incorporate circuit designs provided to us on a confidential basis by our customers. Photomasks are typically sold in sets comprised of layers, with each layer having a distinct pattern that is etched onto a different photomask. The resulting series of photomasks is then used to image the circuit patterns onto each successive layer of a semiconductor wafer or FPD substrate. The typical manufacturing process for a photomask involves the receipt and conversion of circuit design data to manufacturing pattern data. A lithography system then exposes the circuit pattern onto a photomask blank. The exposed areas are developed and etched to imprint the pattern on the photomask. The photomask is then inspected for defects and conformity to the customers design data. After the repair of any defects, the photomask is cleaned, any required pellicles (protective translucent membranes) are applied and, after final inspection, the photomask is shipped to the customer. High-end photomasks support 28 nanometer and smaller design nodes for ICs and Generation 10.5+, AMOLED, and LTPS display-based process technologies for FPDs. However, 32 nanometer and above geometries for semiconductors and Generation 8 and below (excluding AMOLED and LTPS) process technologies for displays, which we refer to as mainstream photomasks, constitute the majority of designs currently being fabricated in volume. At these geometries and at various high-end nodes, we can produce full lines of photomasks. Moreover, there is no significant technology employed by our competitors that is not available to us. We expect advanced-generation designs to continue to be developed, and we believe we are well positioned to service an increasing volume of this business as a result of our ongoing investments in manufacturing processes and technology in the regions where our customers are located. 5 Table of Contents Generally, Photronics and each of its customers engage in a qualification and correlation process before we become an approved supplier. Thereafter, based on the customers specifications, we typically negotiate pricing parameters for the customers order. Some prices may remain in effect for an extended period of time. In many instances, we enter into sales arrangements with an understanding that, as long as our performance is competitive, we will receive a specified percentage of that customers photomask orders. The first several layers of photomasks are sometimes required to be delivered to customers within twenty-four hours from the time we receive customer design data. Because of the short period between order and shipment dates (typically from one day to three weeks) for a significant amount of our revenue, the dollar amount of our current backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. However, the demand for some IC photomasks can extend beyond the traditional time period; thus, for some products, our backlog can expand to as long as two to three months. The ability to manufacture high-quality photomasks within short time periods is dependent upon robust processes, efficient manufacturing methods, high production yield, available manufacturing capacity, and high equipment reliability. We work to meet these requirements by making significant investments in research and development, manufacturing capacity, preventive and on-going equipment maintenance programs, manufacturing and data processing systems, and by utilizing statistical process control methods to optimize our manufacturing processes and reduce cycle times. Quality control is an integral part of the photomask manufacturing process. Photomasks are manufactured in temperature, humidity, and particulate-controlled clean rooms because of the high level of precision, quality and manufacturing yield required. Each photomask is inspected several times during the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with customer specifications. We continue to make substantial investments in equipment to produce, inspect and repair photomasks to ensure that customer specifications are met. Sales and Marketing We conduct our sales and marketing activities primarily through a staff of full-time sales personnel and customer service representatives who work closely with the Companys management and technical personnel. We support non-U.S. customers through both our domestic and foreign facilities and consider our presence in non-U.S. markets to be an important factor in attracting new customers, as it provides global solutions to our customers, minimizes delivery time, and allows us to serve customers that utilize manufacturing foundries outside of the United States, principally in Asia. See Note 10 Revenue and Note 19 Risks and Concentrations to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for the amount of revenue and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic areas of operations. Research and Development We primarily conduct research and development activities for IC photomasks at our Boise, Idaho, facility. Research and development for FPD photomasks is primarily conducted at Photronics Korea, Ltd., our subsidiary in South Korea. Additionally, we conduct region specific applications development programs to support local, strategic customer roadmaps. All of these research and development programs and activities are undertaken to advance our competitiveness in technology and manufacturing efficiency. We also conduct data and service technology development efforts to support the integration of photomasks into customer processes at regions worldwide. Currently, research and development for IC photomasks are primarily focused on photomasks enabling wafer geometries of 7 nanometer node and smaller, including EUV and, for FPDs on Generation 8.6 AMOLED and photomasks for more advanced FPD display integration across all sizes. In addition, we note the role AI is playing in driving the technology roadmap for IC devices and our technology program covers multiple initiatives to deliver AI grade photomasks in IC and advanced packaging applications. We believe these core competencies will continue to be a critical part of semiconductor and FPD manufacturing, as wafer and FPD substrate optical lithography continues to enable new high-end ICs and displays. We incurred research and development expenses of $15.8 million, $16.6 million, and $13.7 million in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. It is our belief that we own, control, or license the proprietary information (including trade secrets and patents) that we need to continue to meet our customers requirements. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to R&D programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. We also believe that our intellectual property and trade secret know-how will continue to be important to maintaining our technical leadership and competitive position in the field of photomasks. 6 Table of Contents Markets The customers for photomasks are primarily semiconductor and FPD manufacturers and to a lesser degree fabless design and equipment companies serving those industries. The size of the photomask market is driven by the number of designs released to support IC and FPD product introductions and manufacturing expansions. The photomasks required for those designs are manufactured by independent merchant manufacturers like Photronics and by semiconductor and FPD manufacturers that produce photomasks for their own use (captive manufacturers). In rare instances, captive manufacturers also sell to other semiconductor or FPD manufacturers. The production value of photomasks produced by merchant suppliers has transitioned from a period when there was a trend toward the divestiture or closing of captive photomask operations by semiconductor manufacturers, and to an increase in the share of the market served by independent merchant manufacturers, like Photronics. This trend was driven by the increased complexity and cost of capital equipment used in manufacturing photomasks, and the lack of economy of scale for many semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to effectively utilize the equipment. That period was followed by a period during which, in order to reach certain roadmap milestones, some captive mask facilities invested at faster rates than independent manufacturers, and the revenue share of market transitioned back to photomasks being majority captive-supplied. More recently, there has been a tendency of more production being directed to the independent merchant manufacturers, with market share moving toward the independents. Nevertheless, most captive manufacturers maintain business and technology relationships with independent photomask manufacturers for ongoing support. We support customers across the full spectrum of IC Production by manufacturing photomasks using electron beam or optical (laser-based) lithography systems. In addition, we have added the most advanced electron beam mask writing system for IC mask writing that employs a multi-beam writing architecture to deliver speed and performance improvements over existing systems. For FPD, the mask fabrication utilizes only optical writing systems to write the mask patterns. These systems are capable of producing the most advanced semiconductor and display photomasks for use in an array of products. End markets served with IC photomasks include devices used for artificial intelligence, cloud computing, microprocessors, memory, telecommunications, internet connected devices, automotive, industrial and other applications. We own a number of both high-end and mature electron beam and laser-based lithography systems. We sell our products primarily to leading semiconductor and FPD designers and manufacturers. These include integrated device manufacturers, fabless semiconductor companies, and pure-play foundries. During 2025, we sold our products to approximately 636 customers. For fiscal year 2025, Customer A, B and C accounted for approximately 16%, 13% and 8%, of consolidated revenue, respectively. For fiscal year 2024, Customer A, B and C accounted for approximately 15%, 12% and 9% of consolidated revenue, respectively. For fiscal year 2023, Customer A, B and C accounted for approximately 14%, 10% and 13% of consolidated revenue, respectively. No other customer represented 10% or more of consolidated revenue in any of the three fiscal years. Our five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 50%, 50% and 51% of our revenue in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. A significant decrease in the amount of revenue from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. Competition The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of our customers utilize multiple photomask suppliers. Our ability to compete depends primarily upon the consistency of our product quality, timeliness of delivery, competitive pricing, technical capability, and service, which we believe are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting their photomask suppliers. An inability to meet these requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We also believe that geographic proximity to customers is an important factor in certain markets where cycle time from order to delivery is critical. While some of our competitors may have greater financial, sales, marketing, or other resources than Photronics, we believe that we are able to compete effectively because of our dedication to customer service, ongoing investments in state-of-the-art photomask equipment and facilities, and experienced technical employees. 7 Table of Contents The semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by a small number of participants ranging in size. Our competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd., Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd (outside of Taiwan and China), Hoya Corporation, LG Innotek Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Newway Photomask Making Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Qingyi Photomask, Ltd., SK-Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation, and Tekscend Photomask. We also compete with semiconductor and FPD manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations that supply photomasks for internal use and, in some instances, also for external customers and foundries. We expect to face continued competition which, in the past, has led to pressure to reduce prices. We believe the pressure to reduce prices, together with the significant investment required in capital equipment to manufacture high-end photomasks will continue in the future. International Operations Revenues from our non-U.S. operationswere approximately 82%, 83% and 86% of our total revenues in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We believe that our ability to serve non-U.S. markets is enhanced by our having, among other things, a local presence in the markets we serve. This requires significant investments in financial, managerial, operational, and other resources. Sales and operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, and may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the imposition of government controls, political and economic conditions in various countries, legal compliance and regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties with staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable collection cycles, potential restrictions on transfers of funds, and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue outside of the United States and may require us to deploy resources where they could otherwise be used to their greatest advantage. Note 10 Revenue and Note 19 Risks and Concentrations of our consolidated financial statements, in Part II, Item 8 of this report, respectively, present our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area. These factors, as well as any of the other risk factors related to our international business and operations including our joint venture operations in China and Taiwan are described in Item 1A Risk Factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. Resources Raw materials used by Photronics generally include: high precision quartz substrates (including large area substrates for FPD), which are used as photomask starting blanks and are primarily obtained from Japanese and South Korean suppliers; pellicles and electronic grade chemicals, which are used in the manufacturing process; and compacts, which are durable plastic containers in which photomasks are shipped. These materials are generally sourced from several suppliers. We believe that our utilization of a select group of strategic suppliers enables us to access the most technologically advanced materials available. On an ongoing basis, we continue to consider additional supply sources. We typically enter into annual pricing agreements with our suppliers, some of which include volume-based incentives that have resulted in substantial cost savings; these agreements do not require us to purchase minimum dollar amounts or quantities of their subject materials. We rely on a limited number of equipment suppliers to develop and provide the equipment used in the photomask manufacturing process. Although, historically, we have been able to obtain equipment on a timely basis, an inability to obtain or repair equipment when required could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Intellectual Property Rights We have developed and hold ownership interests in intellectual property (IP) rights, in the forms of patents issued in the U.S., and other trademark and trademark registrations in the U.S. and other countries. Patents in which we hold ownership interests generally relate to the manufacture of photomasks or the use of photomasks to manufacture other products. While we believe that our IP rights are, and will continue to be, important to our technical leadership in the field of photomasks, our operations are not dependent on any one individual IP right. In addition to patenting, when practicable, we further protect our IP rights, and our other proprietary processes and trade secrets, by utilizing non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers, and vendors. Seasonality Our business is typically impacted during the first quarter of our fiscal year by the North American, European, and Asian holiday periods, as some customers reduce their development and buying activities during those periods. 8 Table of Contents Government Contracts We are party to a limited number of fixed-price contracts with the U.S. government. Revenues earned from these contracts do not comprise a significant portion of our total revenue. Government Regulation We are subject to government regulations within the U.S. and in other countries in which we produce or market our products. The effects of compliance with these regulations are currently not material to our results of operations, capital expenditures, or competitive position. However, compliance with changes to existing or new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, capital expenditures, or competitive position. We discuss the potential impact of our not adhering to a number of these regulations in Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. The following is a list of major subjects of the regulations that pertain to our business: Regulations, such as those under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, that prohibit providing remuneration to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or securing business in the jurisdictions in which they serve; Regulations that require the minimization and proper disposal of the by-products of our manufacturing processes; Regulations that require us to provide a safe working environment for our employees; Regulations that restrict our ability to transfer assets between operations not within the same legal jurisdiction; Regulations that require us to provide information through the submission of government surveys; Regulations that require us to maintain an effective system of internal accounting controls; Regulations that prohibit us from engaging in business in specified countries, or with specified customers; Regulations that require us to protect the personal information of our customers and employees; Regulations that require us to accurately determine our liabilities to taxing authorities, and to settle such liabilities within their statutorily prescribed time periods; Regulations that require us to withhold and timely remit taxes on our employees compensation to government authorities; Regulations that require us to contribute to government-sponsored social insurance plans; Regulations that require us to contribute to employee severance plans; Regulations that prohibit us from disseminating material nonpublic information prior to the public announcement of such information; Regulations pertaining to financial reporting, insider transactions, executive compensation, and other areas overseen by the SEC and governing bodies in other countries in which our operations are located. 9 Table of Contents Human Capital As of October 31, 2025, we had approximately 1,908 full-time and part-time employees worldwide. Our business results depend in part on our ability to successfully manage our human capital resources, including attracting, identifying, and retaining key talent. Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified employees include employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers, and availability of qualified individuals. As of October 31, 2025, none of our employees at any of our worldwide facilities was represented by a union. We consider our employee relations to be good. We believe our commitment to our diverse human capital resources is an important component of our mission to deliver superior photomasks and customer care. We provide all employees with the opportunity to share their opinions in open dialogues with our human resources department and senior management. We provide all employees a wide range of career development opportunities, both formal and informal. Our formal offerings include tuition reimbursement, leadership development experiences and vocational training. The safety of our employees is a paramount value for us. We provide mandatory safety trainings in our production facilities, which are designed to focus on empowering our employees with the knowledge and tools they need to make safe choices and to minimize risks. Supervisors complete safety management courses as well. The health and wellness of our employees are critical to our success. We provide our employees with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and convenient health and wellness programs. Such programs are designed to support employees physical and mental health by providing tools and resources to help them improve or maintain their health status and encourage engagement in healthy behaviors. Additionally, we provide robust compensation and benefits. In addition to salaries, these programs, which vary by country/region, can include annual bonuses, stock-based compensation awards, a 401(k) plan with employee matching opportunities, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, employee assistance programs, and tuition assistance. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are discussions of the risk factors we believe can make an investment in our business speculative or risky. Concentration Related Risk Factors Our dependency on the microelectronics industry, which as a whole is volatile, could create volatility in our demand and have a negative material impact on our business. We sell substantially all of our photomasks to designers and manufacturers of IC and FPD electronic devices. We believe that the demand for photomasks depends primarily on design activity rather than sales volume from products using photomask technologies. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or FPD sales does not necessarily result in a corresponding increase in photomask sales. In addition, the reduced use of application-specific ICs, reductions in design complexities, other changes in the technology or methods of manufacturing or designing semiconductors or FPDs, or a slowdown in the introduction of new semiconductor or FPD designs could reduce demand for photomasks even if the demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. Historically, the microelectronics industry has been volatile, with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns. These negative trends have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices with a concomitant effect on revenue and profitability. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for equipment and raw materials and, if those suppliers fail to timely deliver their products to us, we may be unable to fulfill orders from our customers, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of photomask equipment manufacturers to develop, supply, and repair the equipment we use. These equipment manufacturers usually require lead times of twelve months or longer between the order date and the delivery of certain photomask imaging and inspection equipment. The failure of our suppliers to develop, deliver or service such equipment on a timely basis due to internal issues, supply chain constraints or government-imposed restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce advanced photomasks could become prohibitively expensive, which could similarly affect us. We use high-precision quartz photomask blanks, pellicles, and electronic grade chemicals in our manufacturing processes. There are a limited number of suppliers of these raw materials, and we do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers. Any delays or quality problems in connection with significant raw materials, particularly photomask blanks, could cause delays in the shipments of photomasks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates, with respect to prices of equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing, could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have been dependent on sales to a limited number of large customers; the loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in orders from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Historically, we have sold a significant proportion of photomasks to a limited number of IC and FPD manufacturers. During 2025, 2024 and 2023, our two largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 29%, 27% and 27%, respectively, of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 50%, 50% and 51% of our revenue in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The loss of a significant customer, a significant reduction or delay in orders from any significant customer (including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns), or an unfavorable change in competitive conditions in the semiconductor or FPD industries could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. The consolidation of semiconductor manufacturers, or an economic downturn in the semiconductor industry, may increase the likelihood of losing a significant customer and could also have an adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects. 11 Table of Contents Financing Related Risk Factors Our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate for our current and long-term needs. Our liquidity, as we operate in a high fixed-cost environment, is highly dependent on our revenue volume and the timing of our capital expenditures, which can vary significantly from period to period. Depending on conditions in the semiconductor and FPD markets, our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate to meet our current and long-term needs for capital expenditures, operations, and debt repayments. Historically, in certain years, we have used external financing to fund these needs. Due to conditions in the credit market, some financing instruments used by us in the past may not be available. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that additional sources of financing would be available to us on commercially favorable terms, if at all, should our cash requirements exceed our existing cash, and operating cash flows. Our operations will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, for which we may be unable to provide or obtain funding. The manufacture of leading-edge photomasks requires us to make substantial investments in additional manufacturing capability. We expect that we will be required to continue to make substantial capital expenditures to meet customer requirements and to position us for future growth. Our capital expenditure payments for fiscal 2026 are expected to be approximately $330 million, of which approximately $13.0 million was included in Accounts payable and Accrued liabilities on our October 31, 2025 consolidated balance sheet. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional capital required to fund our operations or capital expenditures on reasonable terms, if at all, or that any such inability will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Industry and Competitive Related Risk Factors Our business depends on managerial and technical personnel, who are in great demand, and our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, upon key managerial and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of certain key personnel (for example, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Technology Officer) could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot offer assurance that we can retain our key managerial and technical employees, or that we can attract similar additional employees in the future. The photomask industry is dependent on the semiconductor and display industries, which are subject to rapid technological change and fluctuations in capacity needs. Consequently, we might fail to adequately time our capabilities to market needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The photomask industry has been, and we expect it to continue to be, characterized by technological change and evolving industry requirements, which recent supply chain regionalization efforts have accelerated. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to continually anticipate, respond to, and scale technologies of increasing complexity in both the traditional and emerging markets that we serve. In particular, we believe that, as semiconductor geometries continue to become smaller and FPDs become larger or otherwise more advanced, we will be required to manufacture photomasks of increasingly challenging complexity. Moreover, the demand for photomasks in non-leading-edge nodes may increase beyond our ability to meet our customers requirements within adequate response times. Additionally, the demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in semiconductor and high-performance electronics fabrication methods that affect the type or quantity of photomasks utilized, such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor programmable IC devices and other approaches that replace application-specific ICs, or the use of certain chip-stacking methodologies that lessen the emphasis on conventional lithography technology. Furthermore, evidence of the viability and the corresponding market acceptance of alternative methods of transferring IC designs onto semiconductor wafers could reduce or eliminate the need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. 12 Table of Contents The risk of loss of our intellectual property, trade secrets, or other sensitive business or customer confidential information or disruption of operations due to cyberattacks or data breaches could negatively impact our financial results. Cyberattacks or data breaches could compromise confidential, business-critical information, cause disruptions in our operations, expose us to potential litigation, or harm our reputation. We have important assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets, and other sensitive, business-critical and/or confidential information which may be vulnerable to such incidents. While we have a comprehensive cybersecurity program that is continually reviewed, maintained, and upgraded, we cannot assure that we are invulnerable to cyberattacks and data breaches which, if significant, could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology, and the utilization of unprotected Company developed technology by our competitors could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial position. We believe that the success of our business depends more on proprietary technology, information and processes, and know-how than on our patents or trademarks. Much of our proprietary information and technology related to manufacturing processes is not patented and may not be patentable. We cannot offer assurance that: we will be able to adequately protect our technology; competitors will not independently develop similar technology; international intellectual property laws will adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We may become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products or processes. Any such claims, with or without merit, or litigation to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights that require us to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources, and product shipment delays or could force us to enter into royalty or license agreements, rather than dispute the merits of these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and, should we be unable to meet our customers requirements for product quality, timeliness of delivery or technical capabilities, our revenue could be adversely affected. The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of our customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. Our competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd., Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd (outside of Taiwan and China), Hoya Corporation, LG Innotek Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Newway Photomask Making Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Qingyi Photomask, Ltd., SK-Electronics Co. Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation, and Tekscend Photomask. We also compete with semiconductor and FPD manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations, some of which market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers. We expect to face continued competition from these and other suppliers in the future. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do. Also, when producing smaller geometry photomasks, some of our competitors may be able to more rapidly develop and produce such masks and achieve higher manufacturing yields than we can. We believe that consistency of product quality, timeliness of delivery, competitive pricing, technical capability and service are the principal factors considered by customers when selecting their photomask suppliers. Our inability to meet these competitive requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the past, competition has led to pressure to reduce prices and the need to invest in advanced manufacturing technology, which we believe contributed to the decrease in the number of independent photomask suppliers, several years ago. These pressures may worsen in the future, causing further consolidation. Investment Related Risk Factors Joint ventures may not operate according to their business plans if our partners fail to fulfill their obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and compel us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures. 13 Table of Contents The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control in certain areas with unaffiliated third parties and it is always possible that the alignment that brought us and our joint venture partner together may change over time, whether due to change in business strategy, change in control, change in market conditions or applicable laws, or other events. Differing views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If our joint venture partner does not fulfill its obligations or that alignment changes, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate in accordance with its business plan or the parties may seek to exit the joint venture under the terms of the joint venture agreement or otherwise. Under such a scenario, among other possible consequences, our results of operations may be adversely affected, we may be compelled to increase the level of our resources devoted to the joint venture or our company-wide business plan may need to be adjusted. If such differences caused a joint venture to deviate from its business plan, or put, change of control or other exit or termination provisions are triggered, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operations in China expose us to substantial risks. In 2019, we commenced operations at our two manufacturing facilities in China. These investments are subject to substantial risks which may include, but are not limited to: the inability to protect our intellectual property rights under Chinese law, which may not offer as high a level of protection as U.S. law; unexpectedly long negotiation periods with Chinese suppliers and customers; quality issues related to materials sourced from local vendors; unexpectedly high labor costs due to a tight labor supply; and difficulty in repatriating funds and selling or transferring assets. Our investments in China also exposed us to a significant additional foreign currency exchange risk, which we had not been subject to in prior years. In addition, as tensions have, from time to time, escalated between the U.S. and China, we believe there is an enhanced risk that our substantial investments in China may be subject to unforeseen or additional restrictions, which may include expropriation of our investments by the Chinese government or restrictions imposed on our operations by the U.S. or other countries. These and other risks may result in our not realizing a return on, or losing some, or all, of our investments in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and financial performance. We may incur unforeseen charges related to possible future facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures in the near or long term, nor can we assure that we will not incur significant charges should there be any future facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or joint ventures or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and entered into joint ventures in the past, and we may pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities in the future. Our future efforts to grow the Company may include expanding into new or related markets or industries. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy may be limited by both our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our financial resources, including our available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include: potential disruption of our ongoing business; distraction of management; unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures; unforeseen adjustments, taxes, charges and write-offs; problems enforcing the indemnification obligations of sellers of businesses or joint venture partners for claims and liabilities; unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, the acquired business; difficulty in conforming the acquired business standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; variability in financial performance arising from the implementation of acquisition accounting; inability to coordinate new product and process development; loss of senior managers and other critical personnel; problems with new labor unions; and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity, and complexity of our operations. 14 Table of Contents Operations Related Risk Factors Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and we anticipate that such fluctuations will continue and could intensify in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility in the prices of our common stock and financial instruments that could be linked to its value. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size and timing of orders and shipments, the loss of significant customers, changes in product mix, the flow of customer design releases, technological change, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, the actions of our competitors, and general economic conditions. We operate in a high fixed-cost environment and, should our revenues and asset utilization decrease, our operating margins could be negatively impacted. Our customers generally order photomasks on an as-needed basis; thus, our revenue in any quarter is dependent primarily on orders received during that quarter. Since we operate with little backlog, and the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our capital expenditures and consequential expense levels are, to some extent, based primarily on sales forecasts and technological advancements in photomask manufacturing equipment. Consequently, if anticipated revenues in any quarter do not occur when expected, our capital investments could result in underutilized capacity and disproportionately high expense levels, causing operating results to be adversely affected. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, in future quarters, our operating results could be below guidance we may provide or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our substantial non-U.S. operations are subject to additional risks. Revenuesfrom our non-U.S. operationswere approximately 82%, 83% and 86% of our total revenues in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We believe that maintaining significant international operations requires us to have, among other things, a local presence in the geographic markets that we supply. This requires significant investments in financial, managerial, operational, and other resources. Since 1996, we have significantly expanded our operations in international markets by acquiring existing businesses in Europe and Asia, and building manufacturing facilities in Taiwan and China. In order to enable us to optimize our investments and other resources, we closely monitor the semiconductor and FPD manufacturing markets for indications of geographic movement and, in conjunction with these efforts, continue to assess the locations of our manufacturing facilities. These assessments could result in the opening of additional facilities or closing of our current facilities. Operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; unstable political and economic conditions in various countries; changes in economic alliances; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements including import and export regulations; compliance with a variety of burdensome foreign laws and regulations; compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act); tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and longer accounts receivable collection cycles. In addition: foreign countries may enact other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including: currency exchange controls; trade sanctions which result in our losing access to customers and suppliers; legislation which renders agreements to be difficult to enforce; impositions on the movement of funds or other assets; or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our costs or our ability to generate revenues outside of the United States and, consequently, on our business and results of operations. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers, or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications. Our products provide important performance attributes for our customers products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications, or has a shorter useful life than warrantied, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform, particularly if such products are sold under agreements that contain limited performance and life cycle warranties. Our customers often require us to guarantee that our products conform to certain product specifications that they provide. Any failure to comply with such specifications could result in claims or legal action. A successful claim, or series of claims, against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers. 15 Table of Contents We face risks associated with the use of sophisticated equipment and complex manufacturing processes and technologies. Our inability to effectively utilize such equipmentand technologies and perform such processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our complex manufacturing processes require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials, and are continually modified in an effort to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. Minute impurities, defects, or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower manufacturing yields and render products unmarketable. Moreover, the manufacture of leading-edge photomasks is more complex and time consuming than manufacturing less advanced photomasks, and their fabrication may result in delays in the manufacture of all levels of photomasks. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties and capacity limitations that have delayed our ability to deliver products within the time frames contracted for by our customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, or be subject to increased costs, which could result in a loss of customers or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have a high level of fixed costs. Because of the capital-intensive nature of the photomask manufacturing business, we have a high level of fixed costs and a high degree of operating leverage. Accordingly, should our sales volumes decline as a result of a decrease in design releases from our customers or for any other reason, we may have excess or underutilized production capacity which could significantly impact our operating margins or result in write-offs from asset impairments. Regulatory Related Risk Factors Additional taxes could adversely affect our financial results. Our tax filings are subject to audits by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the taxing authorities or through the courts. Currently, we believe there are no outstanding assessments whose resolution would result in a material adverse financial result. However, we cannot offer assurances that unasserted or potential future assessments would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks related to tariffs and global trade policies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In FY25, new tariffs were announced on imports to the U.S., followed by various modifications and delays. Further changes are expected to be made in the future, which may include additional sector-based tariffs or other measures. The U.S. Department of Commerce has initiated an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, into, among other things, imports of semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and their derivative products, including downstream products that contain semiconductors. Tariffs and trade restrictions may increase costs and complexity in our supply chain, including the procurement of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, raw materials, and critical components. They may also elevate the cost of our products, reduce demand, and negatively affect customer purchasing behavior. Our products and technology could be subject to U.S. export control laws and/or the export control laws of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. We are subject to various laws relating to the export of products we manufacture, and the technology related thereto, and our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to substantial fines, penalties, and even injunctions, the imposition of which could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. 16 Table of Contents Certain of our products are or could be subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) if they are manufactured in the U.S., or based on U.S. technology, or contain more than a de minimis amount of controlled U.S. content. The EAR could prohibit the export of certain products out of the US or could prohibit our foreign sites from manufacturing or delivering photomasks to certain restricted entities. Additionally, the Company has a large, global business with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Companys total net sales, and the Company believes that it generally benefits from growth in international trade. However, trade policies and disputes and other international conflicts can result in tariffs, sanctions and other measures that restrict international trade, and can materially adversely affect the Companys business, particularly if these measures occur in regions where the Company derives a significant portion of its revenues. Based on the complex relationships between the United States and certain foreign countries including, but not limited to China, there is inherent risk that political, diplomatic and national security influences might lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions to our operations or our ability to sell our photomasks. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose trade restrictions and have also levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods and imposed export restrictions. Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may increasingly impact customer demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell, export products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may be unprepared for changes to environmental laws and regulations and may incur liabilities arising from environmental matters. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the handling, use, storage, disposal, and cleanup of solid and hazardous wastes. Changes in these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and inadequate compliance with their requirements could give rise to significant liabilities. If we violate environmental, health or safety laws or regulations, in addition to being required to correct such violations, we can be held liable in administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, and substantial fines and other sanctions could be imposed that could disrupt or limit our operations. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities may also be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. The nature of our business, including historical operations at our current and former facilities, exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Additional information may arise in the future concerning the nature or extent of our liability with respect to identified sites and additional sites that may be identified, for which we are alleged to be liable. General Risk Factors We could be negatively impacted by Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), climate change and other sustainability-related matters. In recent years, there has been an increased focus from stakeholders on environmental, social, and governance matters, including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks, sustainability, renewable energy, water stewardship, waste management, diversity, equity and inclusion, responsible sourcing and supply chain, human rights, and social responsibility. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts to manage these issues, report on them, and accomplish our goals present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which could have a material adverse impact, including on our reputation and stock price, reputational harm, including damage to our relationships with customers, suppliers, investors, governments, or other stakeholders, adverse impacts on our ability to manufacture and sell products and maintain our market share, the success of our collaborations with third parties, increased risk of litigation, investigations, or regulatory enforcement action, unfavorable environmental, social, and governance ratings or investor sentiment, diversion of resources and increased costs to control, assess, and report on environmental, social, and governance metrics. 17 Table of Contents Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations in detecting human errors, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud; even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we: fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls; otherwise fail to prevent financial reporting misstatements; or experience difficulties in implementing internal controls, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted, and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Our business could be adversely impacted by global or regional catastrophic events. Our business could be materially adversely affected by terrorist acts, widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases, government responses emplaced to limit the impact of infectious diseases (such as shelter-in-place directives), or the outbreak or escalation of wars including, but not limited to, the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Such events in the geographic regions in which we do business, including escalations of political tensions and military conflicts in the U.S., Europe, the Republic of South Korea, the Peoples Republic of China, or the Republic of China (Taiwan), and any governmental sanctions enacted in reaction thereto, could result in a global energy crisis, economic inflation, supply-chain disruptions, or the confiscation or destruction of our facilities; all and any of these outcomes could have material, adverse impacts on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by natural or manmade disasters or labor strikes, either of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake, flood, fire, or other disaster, labor strike, or work stoppage at any of our manufacturing facilities, or a manufacturing facility of our suppliers or customers, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. A disruption resulting from any one of these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products and the loss of revenue and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our facilities in Taiwan are located in a seismically-active area. Our sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the U.S. or other countries in which we or our customers conduct business may have the effect of reducing the demand for photomasks. Economic downturns may lead to a decrease in demand for end products whose manufacturing processes involve the use of photomasks, which may result in a reduction in new product design and development by semiconductor or FPD manufacturers and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store, and protect electronic information. For example, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. Although we have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risks to these vulnerabilities, these measures may not be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur. 18 Table of Contents The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies to the collection, use, retention, security, processing, and transfer of personally identifiable information of residents of E.U. countries. The GDPR created a range of new compliance obligations and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violations. It is possible that the GDPR may be interpreted or applied in a manner that is adverse to, or unforeseen by us, including requirements that are inconsistent with our practices, or that we may otherwise fail to construe its requirements in ways that are satisfactory to the E.U. authorities. Upon leaving the E.U. on January 31, 2021, the U.K. enacted a new domestic data privacy law called the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (UK-GDPR). Although somewhat less restrictive than the GDPR, the UK-GDPR is similar to the GDPR with respect to both an entitys obligation to protect personal information and the imposition of significant fines for violations. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with the GDPR or the UK-GDPR, or with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, including, but not limited to privacy, data protection, information security, or consumer protection related privacy laws and regulations, in one or more jurisdictions within the E.U., the U.K. or elsewhere, could: result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or individuals; subject us to significant fines, penalties, and/or judgments; require us to change our business practices; limit access to our products and services in certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect our business, as we would be at risk to lose both customers and revenue, and incur substantial costs. We may, in the future, incur net losses. Although the Company has been profitable since fiscal 2010, it has, in the past, incurred net losses. We cannot provide assurance that the Company will not incur net losses in the future. Market Related Risk Factors Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S. dollars. Our operations have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; primarily the South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Japanese yen, Chinese Yuan, Euro, Singapore dollar, and the British pound sterling. In 2025, we recorded a net loss from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $8.3 million in our consolidated statement of income, while our net assets decreased by 0.1 million as a result of the translation of foreign currency financial statements to U.S. dollars. Significant foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Our hedging activity could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposures to interest rate and currency movements. If we do not accurately forecast our results of operations, execute contracts that do not effectively mitigate our economic exposures to interest rates and currency rates, elect to not apply hedge accounting (when doing so would have mitigated our losses), or fail to comply with the complex accounting requirements for hedging transactions, our results of operations and cash flows could be volatile, as well as negatively impacted. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may influence the price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: loss of any of our key customers or suppliers; additions or departures of key personnel; third party sales of common stock; short interest in our common stock; 19 Table of Contents our ability to execute our business plan, including but not limited to, our expansion into China; announcements and consummations of business acquisitions; operating results that fall below or exceed expectations; announcements of forecasted earnings or material transactions; issuances or repurchases of our common stock; intellectual property disputes; reputational damage suffered with or without merit; industry developments; news about or disclosures made by our competitors or customers; business combinations, divestitures, or bankruptcies by customers, suppliers, or competitors; economic and other external factors including (but not limited to) inflation, recessions, natural disasters, military actions, political instability, or social unrest; and period to period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, securities markets have from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Such fluctuations may be the result of imbalances between buy and sell offers, the actions of quantitative or algorithmic stock traders and short-sellers, or low trading volume which can magnify the effects of a small number of transactions on the price of a stock. We operate in a global, competitive environment which gives rise to operating and market risk exposure. We sell our products in a competitive, global environment, and compete worldwide for sales on the basis of product quality, price, technology, and customer service. Sales of our products are also subject to federal, state, local, and foreign taxes, laws and regulations, trade agreements, import and export controls, duties, and tariffs. The imposition of additional regulations or controls including export controls, duties, tariffs, or changes to bilateral and regional trade agreements, could negatively impact our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY Risk Management Strategy Securing the Companys business information, customer, supplier, and employee data and information technology systems is an important part of our overall risk management framework. We rely on certain key information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, including cloud vendors, for various business functions necessary to operate and manage our business.We select key third-party service providers based on several factors, including the type of data processed and the nature of services offered, and we oversee such key third-party service providers by conducting vendor diligence upon onboarding and ongoing monitoring, including a review of SOC-1 reports on an annual basis. We have adopted processes, guided by the Center for Internet Security (CIS) Cybersecurity Framework, designed to identify, assess and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. Those processes include response to and an assessment of internal and external threats to the security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data and information systems, along with other material risks to our operations. We have implemented controls, such as Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) and endpoint detection and response (EDR) solutions, to help govern the processes put in place by management designed to protect our IT assets, data, and services from threats and vulnerabilities. Furthermore, we maintain a formal, Incident Response Plan (IRP) and conduct mandatory, ongoing security awareness training for all employees. Although, to date, we have not experienced a material cybersecurity incident resulting in a significant interruption of our operations, the scope of any future incident cannot be predicted with any meaningful accuracy. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information. 20 Table of Contents Governance Management is responsible for the day-to-day management of the risks we face, while our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the oversight of risk management, including risks from cybersecurity threats. The Board of Directors has delegated primary oversight of cybersecurity risk to the Cyber Security Risk Management Committee. The Committee, in turn, ensures its members either possess or have access to relevant cybersecurity and risk management expertise to effectively challenge and guide management's program. The Committee regularly assesses how management is managing these risks and reports on its activities to the full Board of Directors at least quarterly to promote effective coordination and ensure the entire Board remains apprised of the cybersecurity risk landscape and the program's effectiveness. The day-to-day cybersecurity program is led by the Companys Vice President, IT Infrastructure & Information Security. This role is supported by a dedicated security team and reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Vice President, IT Infrastructure & Information Security provides formal, quarterly updates to the Cyber Security Risk Management Committee. These updates cover cyber risk management governance, the status of ongoing efforts to strengthen cybersecurity effectiveness, key risk metrics and the material outcomes of risk assessments, and significant cybersecurity-related news events impacting the industry.In addition to scheduled reports, the Board of Directors engages in ad hoc conversations with management to discuss any significant updates to our cybersecurity risk management and initiatives, particularly in response to emerging threats. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The following table presents certain information about the Companys photomask manufacturing facilities: Location Type of Interest Allen, Texas Owned Boise, Idaho Owned Brookfield, Connecticut Owned Bridgend, Wales Leased Cheonan, South Korea Owned Hefei, China Owned (1) Dresden, Germany Leased Hsinchu, Taiwan Owned (1) Hsinchu, Taiwan Leased Taichung, Taiwan Owned (1) Xiamen, China Owned (1) (1) We own our manufacturing facilities in Hefei, Taichung, Xiamen, and one of our manufacturing facilities in Hsinchu. However, we lease the related land at these sites. We believe our facilities, with planned expansions, are adequate to support our current and near-term requirements. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Please refer to Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for information on legal proceedings involving the Company. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol PLAB. Approximate Number of Holders of Common Stock Based on available information, as of December 11, 2025, we have 212 registered shareholders. Dividends To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on Photronics shares, and, for the foreseeable future, we anticipate that earnings will continue to be retained for use in our business. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans The information regarding our equity compensation required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from the Photronics, Inc. 2026 Definitive Proxy Statement in Item 12 of Part III of this report. The 2026 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended October 31, 2025. Stock Price Performance Graph 22 Table of Contents Purchase of Equity Securities by Registrant and Affiliated Purchasers In September 2020, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of its common stock, pursuant to a repurchase plan under Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. The repurchase authorization by the Board of Directors has no expiration date, does not obligate the Company to acquire any common stock, and is subject to market conditions. From September 2020 through October 2022, the Company repurchased 5.8 million shares at a cost of $68.3 million. In August 2024, the Board of Directors authorized an increase to the Companys existing share repurchase program from the remaining $31.7 million up to $100 million. In June 2025, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $25 million share repurchase. No shares were repurchased during the three-month period ended October 31, 2025. In fiscal year 2025, the Company repurchased 5.0 million shares at a cost of $97.4 million (an average of $19.52 per share). All shares repurchased under the program have been retired prior to the end of the fiscal year in which they were purchased. As of October 31, 2025, $27.6 million remained available under this authorization for the repurchase of additional shares. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following should be read in conjunction with Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements and our combined consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a comparison of results of operations for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2024 and 2023, see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Photronics Inc.s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on December 19, 2024. Overview We sell substantially all of our photomasks to designers and manufacturers of IC and FPD electronic devices. Photomask technology is also being applied to the fabrication of other high-technology products including advanced packaging modules, micro optical components for applications such as virtual reality/augmented reality and silicon photonics, micro-electronic mechanical systems (MEMS), and diverse nanotechnology applications. Our selling cycle is tightly interwoven with the development and release of new semiconductor and display designs and applications, particularly as they relate to the semiconductor industry's migration to more advanced design nodes and fabrication processes. The demand for photomasks is primarily correlated with new product design activity and to a lesser extent scaling up of manufacturing of end products. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or display sales does not always result in a corresponding increase in photomask sales. To the extent integrated circuit and flat panel display applications rely less on new design activity, it could result in a reduction in demand for photomasks. In addition, new design methodologies driving a reduction in complexity of photomasks could also reduce demand for photomasks even if the demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. More broadly, advances in semiconductor, display, and photomask design and production methods that shift the burden of achieving device performance away from lithography could also reduce the demand for photomasks. While there is no indication today that such diminishing of long range photomask demand is occurring or will occur, the microelectronics industry has been volatile, experiencing periodic downturns and slowdowns in design activity. These negative trends have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices with a concomitant effect on revenue and profitability. We are typically required to fulfill customer orders within a short period of time, sometimes within twenty-four hours. This results in a minimal level of backlog orders, typically one to two weeks of backlog for IC photomasks and two to three weeks of backlog for FPD photomasks. However, the demand for some IC photomasks can extend longer than the traditional time period; thus, for some products, our backlog can expand to as long as two to three months. The global semiconductor and FPD industries are driven by end markets which have broad application in the global economy including but not limited to consumer-driven applications, data centers that support AI implementation, electric vehicles and national security. While we cannot predict the timing of the industry's transition to volume production of next-generation technology nodes, or the timing of up and down-cycles with precise accuracy, we believe that such transitions and cycles will continue into the future, beneficially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and operating results as they occur. We believe our ability to remain successful in these environments is dependent upon the achievement of our goals of being a service and technology leader and efficient solutions supplier, which we believe should enable us to continually reinvest in our global infrastructure. We are focused on improving our competitiveness by advancing our technology and reducing costs and, in connection therewith, have invested and plan to continue to invest in manufacturing equipment to serve both the high-end photomask and mainstream markets. As we face challenges that require us to make significant improvements in our competitiveness, we continue to implement programs to streamline, drive efficiency and reduce cost in our infrastructure. State-of-the-art production for semiconductor masks is considered to be 7 nanometer and smaller including EUV lithography for ICs and Generation 8.6 AMOLED display-based process technologies for FPDs. However, we define our high-end product category as 28nm and below for semiconductors and Generation 10.5 plus, Generation 6 and 8 AMOLED and LTPS for displays. This is consistent with current merchant mask industry definitions. Moreover, design nodes above 28nm and FPD processes for standard LCD displays below Generation 10 are considered mainstream or standard products. At these geometries and various high-end nodes, we can produce full lines of photomasks, and there is no significant technology employed by our competitors that is not available to us. We expect advanced-generation designs to continue to move to production throughout fiscal 2026, and we believe we are well positioned to service an increasing volume of this business as a result of our investments in manufacturing processes and technology in the regions where our customers are located. 24 Table of Contents The photomask industry has been, and is expected to continue to be characterized by technological change and evolving industry standards. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to continually anticipate, respond to, and utilize changing technologies. In particular, we believe that, as semiconductor geometries continue to become smaller, and display designs become larger or otherwise more advanced, we will be required to manufacture even more complex products, including photomasks with optical proximity correction, phase-shift and EUV photomasks. Additionally, demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in high-performance electronics fabrication methods that affect the type or quantity of photomasks used, such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor programmable IC devices and other approaches that replace application-specific ICs, or the use of certain chip-stacking methodologies that lessen the emphasis on conventional lithography technology. Furthermore, increased market acceptance of alternative methods of transferring circuit designs onto semiconductor wafers could reduce or eliminate the need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. Our revenues have benefited, and our costs, including depreciation, have been affected by the increased demand for high-end-technology photomasks that require more advanced manufacturing capabilities, but generally command higher ASPs. Our capital expenditure payments were $188.1 million, $130.9 million and $131.3 million in 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Nonetheless, we intend to continue to make the required investments to support the technological and production requirements of our customers that we believe will continue to enable our growth. This includes investments to replace end-of-life mask-making equipment with higher-performing systems that better serve our customers. In support of this effort, we expect capital expenditure payments to be approximately $330 million in fiscal year 2026. The manufacture of photomasks for use in fabricating ICs, FPDs, and other related products built using comparable photomask-based process technologies has been, and continues to be, capital intensive. Our employees and our integrated global manufacturing network represent a significant portion of our fixed operating cost base. Should our revenue decrease as a result of a decrease in design releases from our customers, we may have excess or underutilized production capacity, which could significantly impact our operating margins, or result in write-offs from asset impairments. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables present selected operating information expressed as a percentage of revenue. The columns may not foot due to rounding. Three Months Ended October 31, 2025 August 3, 2025 October 31, 2024 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 65.0 66.3 63.0 Gross profit 35.0 33.7 37.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 9.3 8.8 9.4 Research and development expenses 1.5 2.0 2.4 Operating income 24.1 22.9 25.2 Non-operating (expense) income, net 11.1 (4.5 ) (0.5 ) Income before income tax provision 35.2 18.4 24.7 Income tax (benefit) provision (1.2 ) 4.6 6.5 Net income 36.4 13.8 18.2 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 7.8 3.0 2.9 Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders 28.6 % 10.9 % 15.3 % Year Ended October 31, 2025 October 31, 2024 October 31, 2023 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 64.7 63.6 62.3 Gross profit 35.3 36.4 37.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 8.9 9.0 7.8 Research and development expenses 1.9 1.9 1.5 Operating income 24.5 25.6 28.4 Non-operating income 1.6 3.0 1.9 Income before income tax provision 26.1 28.5 30.3 Income tax provision 3.7 7.3 7.9 Net income 22.4 21.2 22.4 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 6.3 6.1 8.3 Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders 16.1 % 15.1 % 14.1 % Note:All the following tabular comparisons, unless otherwise indicated, are for the three months ended October 31, 2025 (Q4 FY25), August 3, 2025 (Q3 FY25) and October 31, 2024 (Q4 FY24), and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2025 (YTD FY25), October 31, 2024 (YTD FY24), and October 31, 2023 (YTD FY23). Please refer to Part II, Item 7 of our 2024 Form 10-K for comparative discussion of our fiscal years ended October 31, 2024, and October 31, 2023. The tables in this section (Part II, Item 7) may not foot due to rounding. 26 Table of Contents Revenue Our quarterly revenues can be affected by the seasonal purchasing practices of our customers. As a result, demand for our products is typically reduced during the first quarter of our fiscal year by the North American, European, and Asian holiday periods, as some of our customers reduce their development and, consequently, their buying activities during those periods. The following tables present changes in revenue disaggregated by product type and geographic origin, in Q4 FY25 and YTD FY25 from revenue in prior reporting periods. Quarterly Changes in Revenue by Product Type ($ in millions) Q4 FY25 compared with Q3 FY25 Q4 FY25 compared with Q4 FY24 Revenue in Increase Percent Increase Percent Q4 FY25 (Decrease) Change (Decrease) Change IC High-end * $ 65.8 $ 12.2 22.7 % $ 5.8 9.6 % Mainstream 91.6 (2.5 ) (2.7 )% (12.1 ) (11.6 )% Total IC $ 157.4 $ 9.7 6.5 % $ (6.3 ) (3.8 )% FPD High-end * $ 48.7 $ (4.8 ) (8.9 )% $ 0.4 0.8 % Mainstream 9.6 0.5 5.5 % (0.9 ) (8.8 )% Total FPD $ 58.3 $ (4.3 ) (6.8 )% $ (0.5 ) (0.9 )% Total Revenue $ 215.8 $ 5.4 2.6 % $ (6.8 ) (3.1 )% * High-end photomasks typically have higher ASPs than mainstream products. Quarterly Changes in Revenue by Geographic Origin ($ in millions) ** Q4 FY25 compared with Q3 FY25 Q4 FY25 compared with Q4 FY24 Revenue in Increase Percent Increase Percent Q4 FY25 (Decrease) Change (Decrease) Change Taiwan $ 67.3 $ (1.1 ) (1.6 )% $ (2.4 ) (3.4 )% China 58.1 7.5 14.8 % (2.7 ) (4.5 )% South Korea 37.0 (6.7 ) (15.4 )% (3.0 ) (7.5 )% United States 43.5 5.7 15.3 % 1.8 4.2 % Europe 9.0 (0.1 ) (1.3 )% (0.9 ) (9.4 )% Other 0.9 0.1 11.1 % 0.4 87.2 % Total revenue $ 215.8 $ 5.4 2.6 % $ (6.8 ) (3.1 )% ** This table disaggregates revenue by the location in which it was earned. 27 Table of Contents Revenue in Q4 FY25 of $215.8 million represented an increase of 2.6% compared with Q3 FY25, and a decrease of 3.1% from Q4 FY24. Overall IC revenue increased $9.7 million or 6.5% in Q4 FY25 from Q3 FY25 due to strong order patterns globally including the U.S. IC revenue decreased $6.3 million or 3.8% from Q4 FY24, as a result of a decline in maintream products partially offset by an increase in high-end demand. IC mainstream revenue decreased $2.5 million or 2.7% from Q3 FY25, and $12.1 million or 11.6% from Q4 FY24 primarily due to market conditions and geopolitical impacts. FPD revenue decreased $4.3 million or 6.8% in Q4 FY25 from Q3 FY25, and $0.5 million or 0.9% from Q4 FY24 mainly due to the decrease in high-end products, which decreased $4.8 million or 8.9% in Q4 FY25 from Q3 FY25 due to timing of order patterns. Year-over-Year Changes in Revenue by Product Type ($ in millions) YTD FY25 compared with YTD FY24 Revenue in Increase Percent YTD FY25 (Decrease) Change IC High-end * $ 238.9 $ 10.4 4.6 % Mainstream 376.2 (33.4 ) (8.2 )% Total IC $ 615.1 $ (23.0 ) (3.6 )% FPD High-end * $ 195.5 $ 0.2 0.1 % Mainstream 38.7 5.2 15.7 % Total FPD $ 234.2 $ 5.4 2.4 % Total Revenue $ 849.3 $ (17.6 ) (2.0 )% * High-end photomasks typically have higher ASPs than mainstream photomasks. Year-over-Year Changes in Revenue by Geographic Origin ($ in millions)** YTD FY25 compared with YTD FY24 Revenue in Increase Percent YTD FY25 (Decrease) Change Taiwan $ 283.8 $ (4.4 ) (1.5 )% China 221.0 (11.9 ) (5.1 )% South Korea 158.5 0.5 0.3 % United States 148.9 2.3 1.5 % Europe 34.2 (5.2 ) (13.2 )% Other 2.9 1.1 61.3 % $ 849.3 $ (17.6 ) (2.0 )% ** This table disaggregates revenue by the location in which it was earned. 28 Table of Contents Overall revenue decreased $17.6 million or 2.0% in YTD FY25 from YTD FY24, driven by a $23.0 million or 3.6% decrease in IC revenue due to lower demand for mainstream products earlier in the year, partially offset by strong demand for high-end products. FPD revenue increased by $5.4 million or 2.4%, driven by a $5.2 million or 15.7% increase in mainstream product revenue due to an increase in G8 products. Gross Margin Percent Percent Q4 FY25 Q3 FY25 Change Q4 FY24 Change Gross profit $ 75.5 $ 70.9 6.5 % $ 82.3 (8.3 )% Gross margin 35.0 % 33.7 % 37.0 % Gross margin increased to 35% in Q4 FY25 from 33.7% in Q3 FY25, primarily due to favorable product mix and lower manufacturing cost, partially offset by higher overhead costs. Gross margin decreased to 35% in Q4 FY25 from 37% in Q4 FY24, primarily due to unfavorable product mix and higher labor costs, partially offset by lower equipment costs as a percentage of revenue. Percent YTD FY25 YTD FY24 Change Gross profit $ 299.8 $ 315.9 (5.1 )% Gross margin 35.3 % 36.4 % Gross margin decreased to 35.3% in YTD FY25 from 36.4% in YTD FY24, primarily due to increased material costs resulting from unfavorable product mix. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $20.0 million in Q4 FY25, compared with $18.4 million in Q3 FY25, and $21.0 million in Q4 FY24. The $1.6 million increase from Q3 FY25 was primarily the result of additional compensation and related expenses of $1.2 million. The $1.0 million decrease from Q4 FY24 was primarily the result of decreased professional fees of $0.5 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $75.6 million in YTD FY25, compared with $77.8 million in YTD FY24. The decrease of $2.2 million is primarily due to a decrease in compensation and related expenses of $1.1 million and professional fees of $1.0 million. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses, which primarily consist of development and qualification efforts related to process technologies for high-end IC and FPD applications, decreased $1.1 million to $3.2 million in Q4 FY25, from Q3 FY25; the decrease was primarily caused by decreased qualification activities in the U.S. Research and development expenses in Q4 FY25 decreased by $2.1 million from Q4 FY24 as a result of decreased development activities in the U.S. and Asia. On a full year basis, research and development expenses decreased $0.8 million, to $15.8 million, primarily due to decreased development activities in Asia, partially offset by increased research and development activity in the U.S. 29 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net Q4 FY25 Q3 FY25 Q4 FY24 Foreign currency transactions impact, net $ 18.6 $ (14.3 ) $ (7.7 ) Interest expense, net - - (0.1 ) Interest income and other income, net 5.3 4.8 6.8 Other income (expense), net $ 23.9 $ (9.4 ) $ (1.0 ) Other income increased $33.3 million in Q4 FY25 from Q3 FY25 and $24.9 million from Q4 FY24, primarily due to foreign currency impacts. The foreign currency impacts were primarily driven by favorable movements of the New Taiwan dollar and the South Korean won, against the U.S. dollar for both periods. YTD FY25 YTD FY24 Foreign currency transactions impact, net $ (8.3 ) $ 2.2 Interest expense, net (0.1 ) (0.3 ) Interest income and other income, net 22.0 24.0 Other income (expense), net $ 13.6 $ 25.9 Other income decreased $12.3 million in YTD FY25, compared with YTD FY24, due to unfavorable movements of the New Taiwan dollar and the South Korean won, against the U.S. dollar for the period. 30 Table of Contents Income Tax Provision Q4 FY25 Q3 FY25 Q4 FY24 Income tax provision $ (2.7 ) $ 9.6 $ 14.6 Effective income tax rate (3.5 )% 24.8 % 26.6 % The effective income tax rates are sensitive to the jurisdictional mix of our earnings, due, in part, to the non-recognition of tax benefits on losses in jurisdictions with valuation allowances. The effective income tax rate decreased in Q4 FY25 compared with Q3 FY25 primarily due to the release of a $16.7 million valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets that are now expected to be realized in future periods, as well as $2.8 million of reversals of uncertain tax positions mainly resulting from audit settlements and statute expirations. These favorable items were partially offset by $7.1 million of foreign tax rate differentials driven by higher income levels during the quarter. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by an unfavorable jurisdictional mix of earnings. The effective income tax rate decrease in Q4 FY25, compared with Q4 FY24, is primarily due to the impact of the change in valuation allowance described above, changes in the jurisdictional mix of earnings, and a decrease in foreign tax compared with the prior year. YTD FY25 YTD FY24 Income tax provision $ 31.6 $ 63.6 Effective income tax rate 14.2 % 25.7 % The decrease in the effective income tax rate on a full-year basis in FY25, compared with FY24, is primarily due to the release of valuation allowance as described above. We also regularly assess the potential outcomes of ongoing and future tax examinations and, accordingly, have recorded accruals for such contingencies. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of October 31, 2025 and October 31, 2024, are $11.4 million and $14.7 million respectively, recorded in Other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rates. 31 Table of Contents On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EUs Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework. The EU effective dates are January 1, 2024, and January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive. A significant number of other countries are expected to continue to implement similar legislation with varying effective dates. The Company is currently subject to Pillar Two, but we estimate that the financial impact is immaterial. We will continue to monitor further developments to determine any potential impact in the countries in which we operate. On July 4, 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) was enacted in the United States. The OBBBA includes significant changes to federal tax law and other regulatory provisions that may impact the Company. The legislation enacted will be effective for Photronics commencing in our fiscal year 2026. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of the legislative changes as more guidance becomes available. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $16.8 million in Q4 FY25, compared with $6.2 million in Q3 FY25; the increase of $10.6 million was the result of an increase in the net incomes of our joint venture operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $10.5 million in Q4 FY25, compared with $6.4 million in Q4 FY24; which was the result of an increase in the net incomes of our joint venture operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased by $0.7 million in YTD FY25 to $53.8 million from $53.2 million in YTD FY24, as a result of increased net income at both our Taiwan-based and China-based joint venture IC facilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents were $492.3 million and $598.5 million as of October 31, 2025, and October 31, 2024, respectively. As of October 31, 2025, total cash and cash equivalents included $446.1 million held by foreign subsidiaries, including an aggregate of $353.8 million held by our joint ventures in Taiwan and China. In addition, we currently have $95.9 million in short-term investments and CNY 200 million or USD 25 million of borrowing capacity in China to support local operations. See Note 8 Debt to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our outstanding debt and currently available financing. Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash on hand and cash we generate from operations. We continually evaluate alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. These reviews may result in our engagement in a variety of investing and financing transactions, in the transfer of cash among subsidiaries, and/or the repatriation of cash to the U.S. The transfer of funds among subsidiaries could be subject to foreign withholding taxes; in certain jurisdictions, repatriation of these funds to the U.S. may subject them to U.S. state income taxes and/or local country withholding taxes. We believe that our liquidity, including available financing, is sufficient to meet our requirements through the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Through the utilization of our existing liquidity, cash we generate from operations and short-term investments, we plan to continue to invest in our business, with our investments targeted to align with our customers technology road maps. In addition, we stand ready to invest in mergers, acquisitions, or strategic partnerships, should a suitable opportunity arise. We estimate capital expenditures for our fiscal year 2026 will be approximately $330 million; these investments will be targeted towards high-end and mainstream point tools that will increase our operating capacity and efficiency and enable us to support our customers near-term demands. As of October 31, 2025, we had outstanding capital commitments of approximately $126.4 million and accrued liabilities related to capital equipment purchases of approximately $13.0 million. Although payment timing could vary, primarily as a result of the timing of tool delivery, installation and testing, we currently estimate that we will fund $120.0 million of our total $139.4 million committed and recognized obligations for capital expenditures over the next twelve months. Please refer to Notes 11 - Leases and 16 Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our lease liabilities and unrecognized commitments, respectively. 32 Table of Contents On August 28, 2024, the Board of Directors authorized an increase to the Companys existing share repurchase program from the remaining $31.7 million to $100 million. In June 2025, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $25 million share repurchase. During the fiscal year ended as of October 31, 2025, the Company repurchased 5.0 million shares for $97.4 million. As a result, as of October 31, 2025, $27.6 million remained available under this authorization. Depending on market conditions, we may utilize some or the entire remaining approved amount to reacquire additional shares. As discussed in Note 6 PDMCX Joint Ventureof our consolidated financial statements, DNP, the noncontrolling interest in our China-based joint venture has, under certain circumstances, the right to put its interest in the joint venture to Photronics, or to purchase our interest in the joint venture. Under all such circumstances, the sale of DNPs interest would be at its ownership percentage of the joint ventures net book value, with closing to take place within three business days of obtaining required approvals and clearance. As of the date of issuance of this report, DNP had not indicated its intention to exercise this right. As of October 31, 2025, Photronics and DNP each had net investments in this joint venture of approximately $160.4 million. Cash Flows Year Ended October 31, 2025 October 31, 2024 October 31, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 247.8 $ 261.4 $ 302.2 Net cash used in investing activities $ (238.9 ) $ (156.5 ) $ (101.5 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (115.3 ) $ (7.7 ) $ (18.5 ) Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities reflects net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation, and the effects of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $13.6 million in FY25, compared with FY24, primarily due to unfavorable changes in working capital. Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities increased by $82.4 million in FY25, compared to FY24, primarily driven by an increase of purchases of short-term investments of $29.0 million and purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $57.2 million. Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities increased by $107.6 million in FY25, compared to FY24. This was driven by an increase in repurchases of common stock of $97.4 million and repayments of debt of $11.4 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances were positively impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in FY25 of $0.2 million. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP Net Income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders are non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined by Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission and may differ from similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The financial tables below reconcile Photronics, Inc. financial results under U.S. GAAP to our non-GAAP financial information. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate the Companys on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of historical results of the Companys core business. These non-GAAP metrics are not a measure of consolidated operating results under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net income (loss), Net income (loss) per share, or any other measure of consolidated results under U.S. GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP metrics but included in the calculation of their closest U.S. GAAP equivalent, are significant components of the condensed consolidated statement of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance. 33 Table of Contents The following table reconciles U.S. GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders to non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders for the indicated periods. The columns may not foot due to rounding. Three Months ended Year ended Oct 31, Aug 3, Oct 31, Oct 31, Oct 31, Oct 31, 2025 2025 2024 2025 2024 2023 Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to non-GAAP net income: U.S. GAAP net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders $ 61,801 $ 22,891 $ 33,869 $ 136,405 $ 130,688 $ 125,485 FX (gain) loss (18,615 ) 14,258 7,758 8,310 (2,168 ) (2,466 ) Estimated tax effects of FX (gain) loss 4,781 (3,663 ) (1,936 ) (2,066 ) 477 317 Estimated noncontrolling interest effects of above 3,341 (4,130 ) (2,637 ) (5,342 ) (1,407 ) 2,676 Reversal of deferred tax valuation allowance (16,751 ) - - (16,751 ) - - Non-GAAP net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders $ 34,557 $ 29,356 $ 37,054 $ 120,556 $ 127,590 $ 126,012 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding - Diluted 57,977 58,068 62,456 59,920 62,391 61,755 Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to non-GAAP EPS: U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders $ 1.07 $ 0.39 $ 0.54 $ 2.28 $ 2.09 $ 2.03 Effects of the non-GAAP adjustments above (0.47 ) 0.12 0.05 (0.27 ) (0.04 ) 0.01 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders $ 0.60 $ 0.51 $ 0.59 $ 2.01 $ 2.05 $ 2.04 Business Outlook Our current business outlook and guidance was provided in our Full Year and Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2025 Results earnings call, and related slide deck, but is not incorporated herein. These can be accessed in the investor section of our website - www.photronics.com. Information included on our website is not incorporated in this Form 10-K. Our future results of operations and the other forward-looking statements contained in this filing and in our Full Year and Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2025 Results earnings call and presentation involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this report. These factors and a number of other unforeseeable factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of accounting policies, which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. We believe the following to be the more critical areas that require judgment when applying our accounting policies: Revenue Recognition: The application of GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates, including the determination of whether we should recognize revenue as we perform or upon the completion of our performance, as these determinations impact the timing and amount of our reported revenue and net income. Other significant judgments include the estimation of the point in the manufacturing process at which we are entitled to recognize revenue, as well as the measurement of our progress towards satisfying our performance obligations, which determine the amount of revenue we are entitled to recognize. Property, Plant and Equipment: Significant judgment and assumptions are employed when we establish the estimated useful lives of asset classes, and determine when depreciation should commence for individual assets, as these determinations can significantly impact our gross margin and research and development expenses. Significant judgment would also be employed when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a group of assets may not be recoverable, as the recoverability assessment requires us to forecast future cash flows related to these assets; this evaluation can significantly impact our gross margin and operating expense. Leases: Significant judgment is applied in the determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease and, in certain instances, whether the lease should be classified as an operating lease or a finance lease, which can impact the timing and classification of lease costs. Contingencies: We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Changes in estimates related to, and resolutions of, contingencies may have a material impact on our financial performance. Income Taxes: Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income and the jurisdictions where it is earned, statutory tax rates, and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Also inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments and assumptions regarding the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, and our ability to uphold certain tax positions. We are subject to complex tax laws, in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and the manner in which they apply can be open to interpretation. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction in future periods, which involves business plans, planning opportunities, and expectations about future outcomes. Our assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. There are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision. Future events such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, findings in tax audits, and earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate. Effect of Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for recent accounting pronouncements that may affect our financial reporting. 35 Table of Contents