ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our financial statements and related notes thereto included in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis and information set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Financial Highlights Total revenue increased 31% to $63.4 million in the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared with $48.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2021. Net loss was $51.2 million in the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $11.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2021. Adjusted EBITDA was negative $30.6 million in the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to positive $0.1 million in the three months ended April 30, 2021. Net cash used in operating activities was $33.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $5.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. Free cash flow was negative $40.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to negative $12.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. Cash and cash equivalents as of April 30, 2022 was $269.2 million, a decrease of $44.6 million compared to January 31, 2022, driven primarily by net cash used in operating activities and capital expenditures. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities, and for more information as to how we define and calculate such measures, see the section below titled Non-GAAP financial measures. Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive software solutions that improve the operational and financial performance of healthcare organizations by activating patients in their care to optimize patient health outcomes. As evidenced in industry survey reports from KLAS, we have been recognized as a leader based on our integration capabilities with healthcare services client organizations, the broad adoption of our patient intake functionalities, our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and by overall client satisfaction. Through our SaaS-based technology platform, which we refer to as the Phreesia Platform or our Platform, we offer healthcare services clients a robust suite of integrated solutions that manage patient access, registration, payments and clinical support. Our Platform also provides life sciences companies, patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations with a channel for targeted and direct communication with patients. We serve an array of healthcare services clients of all sizes across over 25 specialties, ranging from single-specialty practices, including internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology, and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups, health systems as well as regional and national payers and other organizations that provide other types of healthcare-related services. Our life sciences revenue is generated from clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries as well as patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations seeking to activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health. We derive revenue from (i) subscription fees from healthcare services clients for access to the Phreesia Platform and related professional services fees, (ii) payment processing fees based on levels of patient payment volume processed through the Phreesia Platform and (iii) fees from life sciences companies to deliver marketing content to patients using the Phreesia Platform. We have strong visibility into our business as the majority of our revenue is derived from recurring subscription fees and re-occurring payment processing fees. 27 Table of Contents We market and sell our products and services to healthcare services clients throughout the United States using a direct sales organization. Our demand generation team develops content and identifies prospects that our sales development team researches and qualifies to generate high-grade, actionable sales leads. Our direct sales force executes on these qualified sales leads, partnering with client services to ensure prospects are educated on the breadth of our capabilities and demonstrable value proposition, with the goal of attracting and retaining clients and expanding their use of our Platform over time. Most of our Platform solutions are contracted pursuant to annual, auto-renewing agreements. Our sales typically involve competitive processes and sales cycles have, on average, varied in duration from three months to six months, depending on the size of the potential client. In addition, through Phreesia University (Phreesias in-house training program), events, client conferences and webinars, we help our healthcare services clients optimize their businesses and, as a result, support client retention. We also sell products and services to pharmaceutical brands and advertising agencies through our direct sales and marketing teams. Since our inception, we have focused substantially all of our sales efforts within the United States. Accordingly, substantially all of our revenue from historical periods has come from the United States, and our current strategy is to continue to focus substantially all of our sales efforts within the United States. Our revenue growth has been primarily organic and reflects our significant addition of new healthcare services clients and increased revenue from existing clients. New healthcare services clients are defined as clients that go live in the applicable period and existing healthcare services clients are defined as clients that go live in any period before the applicable period. Investments in Growth During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022, we accelerated hiring and overall investments across all areas of Phreesia to prepare for our anticipated growth in clients and use of our platform. The growth in expenditures from the three months ended April 30, 2021 to the three months ended April 30, 2022 reflects the investments made during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022. In fiscal 2023 and thereafter, we expect growth in our team and compensation to moderate. Recent developments COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the ongoing outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus, or COVID-19, a pandemic. There continues to be uncertainty as to the duration and extent to which the global COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the emergence of new variants, may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance, and results of operations, as well as macroeconomic conditions, at this time. Silicon Valley Bank Facility On March 28, 2022, we entered into the First Loan Modification Agreement to the Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Second SVB Facility) with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) (as amended, the "Third SVB Facility") to increase the borrowing capacity from $50.0 million to $100.0 million. The Third SVB Facility also reduced the interest rate to the greater of 3.25% or the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate minus 0.5%, amended the annual commitment fees to approximately $0.3 million per year and amended the quarterly fee to 0.15% per annum of the average unused revolving line under the facility. Key Metrics We regularly review the following key metrics to measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections, make strategic business decisions and assess working capital needs. Three months ended April 30, Unaudited 2022 2021 Key Metrics: Healthcare services clients (average over period) 2,526 1,902 Average revenue per healthcare services client $ 19,193 $ 20,222 28 Table of Contents We remain focused on building secure and reliable products that derive a strong return on investment for our clients and implementing them with speed and ease. This strategy continues to enable us to grow our network of healthcare services clients. As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, we renamed our key metric "provider clients (average over period)" to "healthcare services clients (average over period)". We also renamed our key metric "average revenue per provider client" to "average revenue per healthcare services client." Healthcare services clients . We define healthcare services clients as the average number of healthcare services client organizations that generate revenue each month during the applicable period. In cases where we act as a subcontractor providing white-label services to our partner's clients, we treat the contractual relationship as a single healthcare services client. We believe growth in the number of healthcare services clients is a key indicator of the performance of our business and depends, in part, on our ability to successfully develop and market our Platform to healthcare services organizations that are not yet clients. While growth in the number of healthcare services clients is an important indicator of expected revenue growth, it also informs our management of the areas of our business that will require further investment to support expected future healthcare services client growth. For example, as the number of healthcare services clients increases, we may need to add to our customer support team and invest to maintain effectiveness and performance of our Platform and software for our healthcare services clients and their patients. Average revenue per healthcare services client. We define average revenue per healthcare services client as the total subscription and related services and payment processing revenue generated from healthcare services clients in a given period divided by the average number of healthcare services clients that generate revenue each month during that same period. We are focused on continually delivering value to our healthcare services clients and believe that our ability to increase average revenue per healthcare services client is an indicator of the long-term value of the Phreesia platform. Additional Information Three months ended April 30, Unaudited 2022 2021 Patient payment volume (in millions) $ 837 $ 701 Payment facilitator volume percentage 80 % 78 % Patient payment volume . We believe that patient payment volume is an indicator of both the underlying health of our healthcare services clients businesses and the continuing shift of healthcare costs to patients. We measure patient payment volume as the total dollar volume of transactions between our healthcare services clients and their patients utilizing our payment platform, including via credit and debit cards that we process as a payment facilitator as well as cash and check payments and credit and debit transactions for which we act as a gateway to other payment processors. Payment facilitator volume percentage . We define payment facilitator volume percentage as the volume of credit and debit card patient payment volume that we process as a payment facilitator as a percentage of total patient payment volume. Payment facilitator volume is a major driver of our payment processing revenue. Our payment facilitator volume percentage could decline slightly over time should we increase our penetration of enterprise customers that are less likely to use Phreesia as a payment facilitator. Components of statements of operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from providing an integrated SaaS-based software and payment platform for the healthcare industry. We derive revenue from subscription fees and related services generated from our healthcare services clients for access to the Phreesia Platform, payment processing fees based on the levels of patient payment volume processed through the Phreesia Platform, and from digital marketing revenue from life sciences companies to reach, educate and communicate with patients when they are most receptive and actively seeking care. 29 Table of Contents Our total revenue consists of the following: Subscription and related services. We primarily generate subscription fees from our healthcare services clients based on the number of healthcare services clients that subscribe to and utilize the Phreesia Platform. Our healthcare services clients are typically billed monthly in arrears, though in some instances, healthcare services clients may opt to be billed quarterly or annually in advance. Subscription fees are typically auto-debited from healthcare services clients accounts every month. As we target and add larger enterprise healthcare services clients, these clients may choose to contract differently than our typical per healthcare services client subscription model. To the extent we charge in an alternative manner with larger enterprise healthcare services clients, we expect that such a pricing model will recur and, combined with our per healthcare services client subscription fees, will increase as a percentage of our total revenue. In addition, we receive certain fees from healthcare services clients for professional services associated with our implementation services as well as travel and expense reimbursements, shipping and handling fees, sales of hardware (PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Kiosks), on-site support and training. Payment processing fees. We generate revenue from payment processing fees based on the number of transactions and the levels of patient payment volume processed through the Phreesia Platform. Payment processing fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the total transaction dollar value processed and/or a fee per transaction. Credit and debit patient payment volume processed through our payment facilitator model represented 80% and 78% of our patient payment volume in the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The remainder of our patient payment volume is composed of credit and debit transactions for which Phreesia acts as a gateway to another payment processor, and cash and check transactions. Utilization trends have been dynamic through the pandemic, diverging from our pre-pandemic seasonality. We expect the environment to remain dynamic through fiscal year 2023. Life sciences. We generate revenue from the sale of digital marketing solutions to life sciences companies. As we expand our healthcare services client base, we increase the number of new patients we can reach to deliver targeted marketing content on behalf of our life sciences clients. Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Our cost of revenue primarily consists of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and bonuses for implementation and technical support, and infrastructure costs to operate our Platform such as hosting fees and fees paid to various third-party providers for access to their technology, as well as costs to verify insurance eligibility and benefits. Payment processing expense Payment processing expense consists primarily of interchange fees set by payment card networks and that are ultimately paid to the card-issuing financial institution, assessment fees paid to payment card networks, and fees paid to third-party payment processors and gateways. Payment processing expense may increase as a percentage of payment processing revenue if card networks raise pricing for interchange and assessment fees or if we reduce pricing to our clients. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, commissions, bonuses and benefits costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Sales and marketing expense also includes costs for advertising, promotional and other marketing activities, as well as certain fees paid to various third-party partners for sales and lead generation. Advertising is expensed as incurred. Research and development Research and development expense consists of costs to develop our products and services that do not meet the criteria for capitalization as internal-use software. These costs consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and bonuses for our development personnel. Research and development expense also includes third-party partner fees and third-party consulting fees, offset by any internal-use software development cost capitalized during the same period. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, bonuses and benefits for our executive, finance, legal, security, human resources, information technology and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expense also includes software costs to support our finance, legal and human resources operations, insurance costs as well as fees to third-party providers 30 Table of Contents for accounting, legal and consulting services, costs for various non income-based taxes and allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our operations and continue to operate as a public company, although we expect such expense to begin to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time. Depreciation Depreciation represents depreciation expense for PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Kiosks, data center and other computer hardware, purchased computer software, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements. Amortization Amortization primarily represents amortization of our capitalized internal-use software related to the Phreesia Platform as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets. Other (expense) income, net Our other expense and income line items consist of the following: Other (expense) income, net . Other (expense) income, net consists of foreign currency-related losses and gains and other miscellaneous (expense) income. Interest income . Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalent balances. Interest income has not been material to our operations to date. Interest expense . Interest expense consists primarily of the interest incurred on our financing obligations as well as amortization of discounts and deferred financing costs. Provision for income taxes Based upon our cumulative pre-tax losses in recent years and available evidence, we have determined that it is more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets as of April 30, 2022 will not be realized in the near term. Consequently, we have established a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets that are not more likely than not to be realized. In future periods, if we conclude we have future taxable income sufficient to realize the deferred tax assets, we may reduce or eliminate the valuation allowance. Comparison of results of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Subscription and related services $ 29,101 $ 21,819 $ 7,282 33 % Payment processing fees 19,381 16,644 2,737 16 % Life sciences 14,872 9,828 5,044 51 % Total revenue $ 63,354 $ 48,291 $ 15,063 31 % Subscription and related services . Our subscription and related services revenue from healthcare services organizations increased $7.3 million to $29.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $21.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, primarily due to new healthcare services clients added as well as expansion of and cross-selling to existing healthcare services clients. Payment processing fees . Our revenue from patient payments processed through the Phreesia Platform increased $2.7 million to $19.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, due to the addition of more healthcare services clients and expansion of services provided to existing healthcare services clients. Life sciences. Our revenue from life science clients for digital marketing increased $5.0 million to $14.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $9.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021, due to an increase in new digital marketing solutions programs and deeper patient outreach among the existing programs. 31 Table of Contents Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 14,386 $ 8,534 $ 5,852 69 % Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) increased $5.9 million to $14.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $8.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase resulted primarily from a $3.3 million increase in employee compensation costs driven by higher compensation for existing employees and increased headcount as well as higher outside services costs. Stock compensation incurred related to cost of revenue was $0.8 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Payment processing expense Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Payment processing expense $ 12,158 $ 9,725 $ 2,433 25 % Payment processing expense increased $2.4 million to $12.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $9.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase resulted primarily from an increase in patient payments processed through the Phreesia Platform driven by an increase in patient visits over the prior year. Sales and marketing Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 40,031 $ 15,012 $ 25,019 167 % Sales and marketing expense increased $25.0 million to $40.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $15.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to a $21.4 million increase in total compensation costs driven by higher compensation for existing employees and increased headcount as well as higher third-party marketing and advertising costs. Stock compensation incurred related to sales and marketing expense was $5.7 million and $1.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Research and development Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 20,635 $ 8,054 $ 12,581 156 % Research and development expense increased $12.6 million to $20.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $8.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase resulted primarily from a $9.3 million increase in total compensation and benefits costs driven by higher compensation for existing employees and increased headcount, a $1.3 million increase in outside services costs as well as higher software expenses. Stock compensation incurred related to research and development expense was $2.6 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 32 Table of Contents General and administrative Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 20,855 $ 12,671 $ 8,184 65 % General and administrative expense increased $8.2 million to $20.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $12.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase resulted primarily from a $5.3 million increase in total compensation and benefits costs driven by higher compensation for existing employees and increased headcount to support our growth as a public company, a $1.0 million increase in outside services costs, as well as higher software costs and higher costs for non-income based taxes, partially offset by lower recruiting costs. Stock compensation incurred related to general and administrative expense was $5.1 million and $2.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Depreciation Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Depreciation $ 4,278 $ 3,297 $ 981 30 % Depreciation expense increased $1.0 million to $4.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $3.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to higher data center equipment depreciation. Amortization Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Amortization $ 1,604 $ 1,651 $ (47) (3) % Amortization expense remained relatively flat at $1.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 as compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. Other (expense) income, net Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Other (expense) income, net $ (31) $ 66 $ (97) (147) % Other (expense) income, net was not significant and remained relatively flat during the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021. Interest (expense) income, net Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Interest (expense) income, net $ (383) $ (238) $ (145) 61 % Interest expense, net increased $0.1 million to $0.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to higher commitment fees related to the Third SVB Facility as well as interest expense related to finance leases we entered into during fiscal year 2022. 33 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Provision for income taxes $ (235) $ (149) $ (86) 58 % Provision for income taxes was $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, as compared $0.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021. Provision for income taxes relates primarily to utilization of Canadian net operating loss carryforwards and state income taxes. Non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss before interest expense (income), net, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and before stock-based compensation expense and other expense (income), net. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget, and to develop short and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the amounts eliminated in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: Although depreciation and amortization expense are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) the potentially dilutive impact of non-cash stock-based compensation; (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; or (4) interest expense (income), net; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA along with other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net loss, and our GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss for each of the periods indicated: 34 Table of Contents Three months ended April 30, (in thousands, unaudited) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (51,242) $ (10,974) Interest expense (income), net 383 238 Provision for income taxes 235 149 Depreciation and amortization 5,882 4,948 Stock-based compensation expense 14,151 5,774 Other expense (income), net 31 (66) Adjusted EBITDA $ (30,560) $ 69 We calculate free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities less capitalized internal-use software development costs and purchases of property and equipment. Additionally, free cash flow is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions and strengthening our financial position. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow from net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, for each of the periods indicated: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (33,633) $ (5,473) Less: Capitalized internal-use software (5,239) (2,916) Purchases of property and equipment (1,785) (3,983) Free cash flow $ (40,657) $ (12,372) Liquidity and capital resources In April 2021, we completed a follow-on offering of our common stock. In connection with this offering, we issued and sold 5,175,000 shares of common stock at an issuance price of $50.00 per share resulting in net proceeds of $245.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. As of April 30, 2022 and January 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $269.2 million and $313.8 million, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents consist of money market accounts and cash on deposit. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our available financial resources from our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Silicon Valley Bank facility Second SVB Facility On May 5, 2020, we entered into the Second SVB Facility. The Second SVB Facility provided for a revolving line of credit of up to $50.0 million (with options to increase up to $65.0 million). We transferred the $20.0 million outstanding balance on a previous SVB Facility, the First SVB Facility term loan, plus related prepayment fees, into the revolving credit borrowings outstanding under the Second SVB Facility. As of April 30, 2022, the interest rate on 35 Table of Contents the Second SVB Facility was 4.5%. Borrowings under the Second SVB Facility were payable on May 5, 2025. We repaid the outstanding balance on the Second SVB Facility in January 2021. Third SVB Facility On March 28, 2022, we entered into the Third SVB Facility to increase the borrowing capacity from $50.0 million to $100.0 million. The Third SVB Facility also reduced the interest rate to the greater of 3.25% or the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate minus 0.5%, amended the annual commitment fees to approximately $0.3 million per year and amended the quarterly fee to 0.15% per annum of the average unused revolving line under the facility. Borrowings under the Third SVB Facility are payable on May 5, 2025. As of April 30, 2022, we had no outstanding balance on the Third SVB Facility and $100,0 million of available borrowings under the facility. In the event that we terminate the Third SVB Facility prior to the Maturity Date and do not replace the facility with another SVB facility, we are required to pay a termination fee equal to $0.2 million plus a percent of total borrowing capacity, both of which would be reduced based on the amount of time elapsed before the termination. Any of our obligations under the Third SVB Facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, other than intellectual property. The Third SVB Facility includes a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum Adjusted Quick Ratio, as defined in the Third SVB Facility. We were in compliance with all covenants related to the Third SVB Facility as of April 30, 2022. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2021: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Cash used in operating activities $ (33,633) $ (5,473) Cash used in investing activities (7,024) (6,899) Cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3,965) 244,271 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (44,622) $ 231,899 Operating activities The primary source of cash from operating activities is cash received from our customers. The primary uses of cash for operating activities are for payroll, payments to suppliers and employees, payments for operating leases, as well as cash paid for interest on our finance leases and other borrowings and cash paid for various sales, property and income taxes. During the three months ended April 30, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $33.6 million, as our cash paid to employees and suppliers exceeded our cash received from customers in connection with our normal operations. During the three months ended April 30, 2021 cash used in operating activities was $5.5 million, as our cash paid to employees and suppliers exceeded our cash received from customers in connection with our normal operations. The change in cash used in operating activities was driven primarily by higher employee compensation costs, primarily due to higher employee headcount as well as an increase in compensation costs for existing employees, partially offset by an increase in cash received from customers driven by higher revenues. Investing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $7.0 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures, the majority of which consisted of $5.2 million of capitalized internal-use software costs, as well as $1.8 million of purchases of property and equipment, principally the purchase of data center equipment. During the three months ended April 30, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $6.9 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures, the majority of which consisted of $4.0 million of purchases of property and equipment including hardware used by clients and the purchase of data center equipment, as well as capitalized internal-use software costs of $2.9 million. 36 Table of Contents Financing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $4.0 million, primarily consisting of $4.3 million used for treasury stock to satisfy tax withholdings on stock compensation awards and $1.5 million used for principal payments on finance leases, partially offset by $1.9 million in proceeds from our equity compensation plans and $0.1 million of financing fees related to the Third SVB Facility. During the three months ended April 30, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $244.3 million, consisting of $245.8 million in proceeds from the April 2021 offering of our common stock, net of underwriters' discounts and commissions, and $1.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $1.1 million used for treasury stock to satisfy tax withholdings on stock compensation awards, $1.1 million used for principal payments on finance leases and $0.7 million used for principal payments on other debt. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements relate to leases, financing arrangements and contractual purchase commitments and human capital. During the three months ended April 30, 2022, there were no significant changes in our material cash requirements as compared to the material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our unaudited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP and applicable rules and regulations of the SEC regarding interim financial reporting. The preparation of our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2022 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 3. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We have operations both within the United States and in Canada, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. These risks primarily include interest rate and foreign exchange risks. During the three months ended April 30, 2022, there were no significant changes in our