Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied forward-looking statements that are based on our managements belief and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, costs of revenue, operating expenses, and cash flows; the rapidly evolving industry and the market for technology-enabled services in healthcare in the United States being relatively immature and unproven; our reliance on a limited number of clients for a substantial portion of our revenue; our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth; our ability to achieve and grow profitability; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and investments to meet our liquidity needs; potentially competing with our customers or partners; our existing clients not renewing their existing contracts with us, renewing at lower fee levels or declining to purchase additional applications from us; failure to adequately expand our direct sales force impeding our growth; our ability to recover the significant upfront costs in our customer relationships; our ability to determine the size of our target market; liability arising from our collection, use, disclosure, or storage of sensitive data collected from or about patients; consolidation in the healthcare industry resulting in loss of clients; the uncertainty of the regulatory and political framework; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and our ability to attract, retain and cross-sell to healthcare provider clients; our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property for our technology and products; our inability to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets impacting the value of our technology; our reliance on third-party vendors, manufacturers and partners to execute our business strategy; our inability to implement our solutions for clients resulting in loss of clients and reputation; our dependency on our key personnel, and our ability to attract, hire, integrate, and retain key personnel; the possibility that we may become subject to future litigation; our future indebtedness; our expectations regarding trends in our key metrics and revenue from subscription fees from our provider clients, payment processing fees and fees charged to our life science clients by delivering targeted messages to patients; 4 Table of Contents increased expense associated with being a public company; and other risks and uncertainties, including those listed under the caption Risk Factors. 5 Table of Contents In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, among other things, those listed under the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual events or results may vary significantly from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. No forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should therefore not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys, and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys, and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Phreesia, the Company, we, us, and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Phreesia, Inc. 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive solutions that transform the healthcare experience by engaging patients in their care and enabling healthcare provider organizations to optimize operational efficiency, improve profitability and enhance clinical care. As evidenced in industry survey reports from KLAS, an independent healthcare information technology research firm, we have been recognized as a leader based on our integration capabilities with healthcare provider organizations, the broad adoption of our patient intake functionalities and by overall client satisfaction. Through the SaaS-based Phreesia Platform, which we refer to as the Phreesia Platform or our Platform, we offer healthcare provider organizations, or provider clients, a robust suite of solutions to manage the patient intake process and an integrated payments solution for secure processing of patient payments. Our Platform also provides life sciences companies with an engagement channel for targeted and direct communication with patients. In fiscal 2020, we facilitated patient visits in over 1,600 healthcare provider organizations across all 50 states. We define a patient visit as an individual, in-person or telehealth visit to a healthcare provider, which may include multiple visits by the same patient. Additionally, our Platform processed nearly $1.9 billion in patient payments in fiscal 2020. Patient intake is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous tasks, including registration, insurance verification, patient questionnaires, patient-reported outcomes, or PROs, payments and scheduling. Inefficiencies during the intake process often result in lower patient and provider satisfaction, wasted time, missed revenue opportunities and diminished health outcomes. Phreesia was founded to revolutionize patient intake and to create a better, more engaging healthcare experience. We have created an integrated and streamlined system that automates data capture and engages patients before, during and after the point of care. The Phreesia Platform manages the end-to-end patient intake process and encompasses a comprehensive range of services, including initial patient contact, registration, appointment scheduling, payments and post-appointment patient surveys. The Phreesia Platform securely collects and analyzes each patients information and provides engagement tools to efficiently guide each patient through their healthcare journey. We deploy our Platform across a range of modalities, including through patients mobile devices (Phreesia Mobile), through a web-based dashboard for providers (Phreesia Dashboard) and through our proprietary, self-service intake tablets (PhreesiaPads) and on-site kiosks (Arrivals Stations), all of which provide an individualized intake experience for each patient based on age, gender and appointment type. Our solutions are highly customizable and scalable to any size healthcare provider organization and can seamlessly integrate within a provider clients workflows and leading Practice Management, or PM, and Electronic Health Record, or EHR, systems. Our Platform additionally allows for time-of-service and secure post-explanation of benefits integrated payments. We serve an array of provider clients ranging from single-specialty practices, which include internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups. Our life sciences business additionally serves clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including 13 of the top 20 global pharmaceutical companies as measured by revenue in fiscal 2020. Our Platform The Phreesia Platform currently offers the following solutions to our clients: Our registration solution automates patient self-registration via Phreesia Mobileeither before or at the time of the patients visitor through the use of a purpose-built PhreesiaPad or Arrivals Station for on-site check-in. The solution also includes the Phreesia Dashboard, which provider staff use to monitor and manage the intake process. Our patient activation solution enables providers to communicate with their patients through automated, tailored surveys, announcements, messaging and targeted health campaigns. Our revenue cycle solution provides insurance-verification processes, point-of-sale payments applications and cost estimation tools, which help providers maximize the timely collection of patient payments. Our clinical support solution collects clinical intake and PRO data for more than 25 specialties, enabling our clients to ask the right clinical questions of the right patients at the right time, and gather key data that aligns with their quality-reporting goals. 7 Table of Contents Our appointments solution provides a comprehensive appointment scheduling system to provide clients with applications for online appointments, reminders and referral tracking. Our life sciences solution provides a channel for our life sciences clients to deliver targeted and clinically relevant marketing content to patients, which allows them to have more informed conversations with their providers. We also enable our life sciences clients to receive direct patient feedback to incorporate into their business models. The Phreesia Platform provides significant and measurable value to patients, healthcare provider organizations and life sciences companies. For patients, we provide a seamless, individualized intake experience and flexible payment options. For provider clients, we enable them to increase collections, streamline the referral process, improve quality measures, increase patient satisfaction and consistently collect key clinical, demographic and social data. Based on client feedback received and our internal analysis, we believe that the majority of our provider clients have been able to increase time-of-service collections after installing our Platform. For life sciences clients, we increase patient awareness and education of their marketed products. Based on our analysis of client advertising campaigns conducted by Crossix and another data analytics company, which we commissioned, we believe patients exposed to a brand campaign using the Phreesia Platform more likely, on average, to have a prescription filled for that product than control patients. The Phreesia Platform has evolved to provide a comprehensive range of applications and modules that address the growing needs of the healthcare market. The success and continued evolution of our company has been due in large part to the talent and engagement of the entire Phreesia team. Our team members are key pillars of our success and fostering and developing their talent is central to our culture. Based on the significant value we provide to our clients, we have experienced strong organic revenue growth over the last three fiscal years. Total revenue increased approximately 25% from $79.8 million in fiscal 2018 to $99.9 million in fiscal 2019 and approximately 25% from $99.9 million in fiscal 2019 to $124.8 million in fiscal 2020. Adjusted EBITDA increased from a loss of $4.1 million in fiscal 2018 to income of $3.5 million in fiscal 2019 and to income of $4.8 million in fiscal 2020. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures for more information as to how we define and calculate Adjusted EBITDA and for a reconciliation of net income, the most comparable GAAP measure. Industry challenges and our opportunity We develop and market solutions that increase efficiency, reduce costs and improve clinical effectiveness in the healthcare industry. We believe the following trends impacting the healthcare industry represent significant opportunities for us. Inefficiency and waste amidst continually rising U.S. healthcare expenditure The excess in healthcare spending is largely administrative-related, including complex billing procedures, non-standardized practices and a lack of communication between front- and back-office operations, leading to increased costs, errors and inefficient use of providers time. Physician practices, burdened by these complex administrative and billing tasks, require extensive support staff to handle these challenges. We believe there is a significant business opportunity and the market for our services will continue to grow as healthcare provider organizations and their staff seek to address these rising costs by eliminating waste and inefficiencies. The patient intake process today is primarily manual, tedious, prone to costly errors and repetitive. By contrast, the Phreesia Platform provides an automated and comprehensive solution to address key provider pain points. As the leading patient intake platform, Phreesia increases staff and doctor efficiency and allows providers to maximize clinical time with patients, reduce administrative complexities and optimize the delivery of care. Increasing patient financial responsibility in healthcare As healthcare expenditures continue to rise, employers and health systems have shifted more of the cost to patients through increased cost sharing and the use of high-deductible health plans. These trends have resulted in significant increases in out-of-pocket patient spending, which CMS expects to total $586.0 billion by 2027. The emergence of the patient as a major payer of healthcare is a dramatic shift in the industry payment landscape, which requires provider staff to obtain payment from the patient before and after the point of care. These tasks are best accomplished with more automated registration, billing and collection workflows, as well as patient-centric payment options. Against this backdrop, patients have historically struggled to understand their bills. According to a McKinsey & Company analysis, by some estimates, healthcare provider organizations collect only half of patient balances after the patient's initial visit, which contributes to incremental financial pressure. 8 Table of Contents Phreesias comprehensive digital payment platform enables providers to more effectively engage patients and increase collections. Our robust suite of revenue cycle solutions drives profitability, increases transparency and enhances the patient financial experience. Increasing consumerism in healthcare As patients pay an ever-growing share of their healthcare costs, they are increasingly demanding higher quality care, increased cost transparency, shared decision making and convenience. As such, patient experience and satisfaction are becoming important priorities for providers as they compete to attract and retain new patients. Moreover, pharmaceutical companies are increasingly becoming more patient-centric due to increased competition and development of more targeted therapies. We believe the Phreesia Platform drives improved patient satisfaction and education, efficiency and overall quality of care. Our Platform provides an end-to-end patient intake solution that engages patients directly on their device of choice (Phreesia Mobile, PhreesiaPad or Arrivals Station) to provide streamlined, self-service patient intake and empowers providers with intuitive, cloud-based software that drives actionable insights. Our automated and integrated intake solution allows us to achieve high levels of patient utilization, providing us and our provider clients with important access to patients at key moments of their care. We also help educate patients about relevant treatment options to encourage more engaging provider interaction, and we provide pharmaceutical companies with an effective channel to incorporate the patient voice in to their business models in an increasingly competitive, patient-centric healthcare environment. Ongoing shift to value-based reimbursement models The United States healthcare system has been shifting toward alternative payment models, in which healthcare provider organizations share financial risk and are reimbursed based on patients experience and outcomes, based on a review by the Health Care Payment & Learning Action Network. According to the American Hospital Association, the shift to these models requires healthcare provider organizations to manage new challenges related to measurement and reporting, population health management, care coordination and other patient demands, all of which may require additional staff and capabilities. The Phreesia Platform provides real-time insights necessary to improve outcomes in a value-based operating model. We utilize industry-accepted PROs and clinical screening tools that have been developed by third parties and tested for reliability, sensitivity and validity. These PROs allow our healthcare provider clients to close gaps in care, identify successful treatments and engage patients in their care. At the same time, our ability to streamline the intake process and critical workflows improves provider and staff efficiency, allowing for optimal allocation of resources to manage the demands of a value-based care model. Increasing focus on personalized healthcare solutions We believe that the treatment and prevention of disease are becoming increasingly personalized, driven by technological advancements in the use of patient-specific health, lifestyle/environmental, genomic and other data to diagnose, treat and prevent disease at a personalized level. According to the Journal of the American Medical Association, pharmaceutical companies currently spend a substantial portion of their direct-to-consumer marketing dollars on television and print to reach large patient populations with chronic conditions such as diabetes and pain, which we believe is not as effective as targeted outreach. As new therapies, including those for smaller patient populations, are brought to market, pharmaceutical companies need cost-efficient marketing channels and capabilities to promote new medicines. Phreesias high levels of patient engagement and robust targeting capabilities create an attractive marketing channel for life sciences companies to reach and inform targeted patient populations while they are seeking care which empowers patients to have informed conversations with their physician about their care plan and treatment options. Our market opportunity The Phreesia Platform serves a range of provider clients, including single-specialty practices, multi-specialty groups and large health systems. Through our life sciences solutions, we provide services to large and small pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies. We believe the current addressable market for our Platform and services is approximately $7.0 billion and is derived from: (1) the potential subscription-based revenue generated from the approximately 890,000 U.S.-based ambulatory care providers currently taking medical appointments, (2) consumer-related transaction and payment processing fees, which are based on a percentage of payments that can be processed via the Phreesia Platform and addresses approximately $91.0 billion of annual out of pocket patient spend in ambulatory healthcare related professional services, and (3) a portion of the $6.0 billion 9 Table of Contents spent by life sciences companies on direct-to-consumer prescription drug marketing. As we develop new products and services on the Phreesia Platform, we expect our total addressable market to grow. Our recent entry into acute-care organizations is an example of a new market offering that is not included in our current addressable market. Our value proposition We are focused on creating a better, more engaging healthcare experience for patients, healthcare provider organizations and life sciences companies. We believe our solutions provide a unique value proposition that is differentiated from what is offered by the traditional healthcare system. Value proposition for patients Improved patient experience . Our Platform streamlines the patient intake process and provides consumer-centric options for check-in. We pre-populate information from prior visits, minimizing the frustration of repetitive questions during the intake process and streamlining the information for review by a clinician by the time the patient reaches the exam room. We also offer patients a convenient, flexible, secure intake experience that saves time and reduces the confusion and anxiety around payments. Additionally, our cost estimation tool allows patients to receive an accurate estimate of their out-of-pocket spend for a particular service prior to receiving care. Patients are also able to save time by requesting appointments directly on their healthcare provider organizations website using our technology. Flexible payment options. Our Platform provides patients with flexibility and choice in how they pay for healthcare services. Patients are able to pay upfront or set up an automated payment plan that adheres to the provider clients financial policies. Patients can also choose to pay online on their providers website or place a card on file. Our Platform also removes the need for difficult payment-related conversations with staff and ensures a level of personal privacy throughout the transaction. Engagement in care. By leveraging the power of self-service and providing individualized, flexible intake solutions, we engage patients early in their healthcare journey and empower them to be more active in their care decisions. Value proposition for healthcare provider organizations Simplify operations and enhance staff efficiency. We enable healthcare provider organizations to streamline operations through automated patient intake and payments that are integrated into existing workflows and PM and EHR systems. By automating the numerous tasks of the intake process, our provider clients have been able to save time on patient check-ins. Improve cash flow and profitability. We enable our provider clients to increase collections and reduce costs. Based on client feedback received and our internal analysis, we believe that our flexible patient payment options, including card on file, have led to an increase in time-of-service collections for the majority of our provider clients. Our automated eligibility and benefits verification solution also reduces the number of denied claims. Enhance clinical quality. We enable our provider clients to more efficiently and effectively capture the right clinical information to meet their clinical goals and align with quality reporting initiatives. Our logic-driven targeting and delivery of PROs and other questionnaires help providers identify and target at-risk patients in need of specific care and reduce errors by avoiding the need to manually gather the information. Improve patient experience. We simplify the patient intake process to drive higher patient satisfaction, retention and engagement. Our streamlined intake and payments offering provides a consumer-friendly experience and engages patients to take control of their care. Through our patient surveys, providers are able to conduct outreach to patients within 24 hours of visit and generate real-time feedback that informs and drives improvement efforts. Value proposition for life sciences organizations Targeted, direct digital marketing. We provide life sciences companies with a channel to identify, reach, educate and communicate with patients when they are most receptive and actively seeking care. Our data-driven solutions provide custom, targeted patient outreach based on various clinical, environmental and social data, allowing our clients to engage patients with clinically relevant medical content to help facilitate conversations with their providers about treatment options. Improve brand conversion and adherence. Our data and analytics capabilities identify patient populations that align with our life sciences clients target audiences. Based on our analysis of client advertising campaigns 10 Table of Contents conducted by Crossix and another data analytics company, which we commissioned, we believe patients exposed to a brand campaign using the Phreesia Platform are more likely, on average, to have a prescription filled for that product than control patients. Integration with our point-of-care solutions, which engage our patients in their own care, increases incremental prescriptions with existing patients, driving an adherence benefit and strong return to our clients. Feedback from patient voice. Our Patient Insights solution provides a channel for our life sciences clients to deliver real-time, dynamic surveys to highly targeted patients and capture direct patient feedback. Our competitive strengths Market leadership . We believe the Phreesia Platform is the most comprehensive and scalable patient intake and payments solution in the market, placing us at the point of care and in the center of the patient-provider relationship. Phreesia is an industry leader in market share and user engagement, in over 1,600 healthcare provider organizations. We were named the top-ranked patient intake management vendor for 2019 and 2020 by the healthcare IT research and insights firm KLAS. Scalable SaaS-based platform embedded in mission-critical daily workflows . Our Platform seamlessly integrates into our provider clients daily workflows with bi-directional integration into PM and EHR systems collectively representing the majority of the total PM and EHR market. These robust integrations provide real-time exchange of clinical, demographic and financial information. For example, customized consent forms and questionnaires are uploaded directly into a provider clients PM or EHR system immediately upon completion, which reduces staff time spent on administrative tasks. Our feature-rich SaaS technology architecture is highly scalable across healthcare provider organizations of all sizes, from small independent practices to large health systems with multiple locations, enabling us to implement our solutions quickly and cost-effectively. Integrated payment platform . The integration of payments within our patient intake platform creates a seamless experience for both patients and providers and results in increased payments for healthcare provider organizations and revenue for Phreesia. Compared with disparate payment platforms and manual reconciliation processes, the Phreesia Platform automatically posts payments in real-time to a provider clients PM system, creating material time and cost efficiencies for our provider clients. Our revenue cycle solutions, such as card on file, online payments and payment plans, provide convenient payment options for patients, lower bad debt expense for provider clients and reduce payment-related tasks for their staff. Significant and measurable return on investment . We actively measure and report performance metrics for our provider clients, demonstrating significant and sustainable return on investment in multiple impact areas, often as early as 30-60 days after launch. Example impact areas include: increased collections, expanding staff and provider capacity, optimizing profitability by reducing back-office billing and collection costs, improving patient experience through streamlined scheduling and check-in process and flexible payment options, and enhancing clinical care by creating time savings for staff and clinicians. Proven ability to innovate and meet the evolving needs of our clients . We have demonstrated the ability to quickly and reliably incorporate new applications into the Phreesia Platform to address the myriad of challenges facing healthcare provider organizations and we continue to evaluate the most impactful innovations that will drive a better healthcare experience. Our solution was initially designed as a patient check-in and messaging tool, but it has rapidly evolved into a comprehensive patient intake and payment platform designed to keep pace with evolving demand from patients and providers. We have introduced multiple new applications in the last three years, including Phreesia Mobile, which allows patients to check in conveniently from their own device and has significantly increased patient utilization and overall patient engagement, and Payment Assurance, which eliminates many of the manual tasks required to bill a patient. Additionally, Phreesia has been committed to supporting our provider organization clients as they respond to coronavirus, or COVID-19, by helping them stay safe, stay open and continue to see patients. To that end, we have released a number of new product offerings and features to align with our clients evolving needs and workflows, including tools for screening patients, supporting drive-through appointments and other no-waiting-room models, communicating with patients and promoting them to schedule appointments, collecting patient information during telehealth visits and reducing patient-staff contact during in-person visits. Attractive, highly scalable financial model . Our revenue is largely derived from recurring monthly subscriptions and re-occurring payment processing fees, which should increase with growth of our client base and the ongoing shift of healthcare costs to patients. We have successfully expanded our products sold to existing clients by adding incremental providers and offering additional solutions to these clients. This has led to a 21% increase in average 11 Table of Contents revenue per provider client from fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2020. As our provider clients continue to add more providers to our Platform, we benefit from increased scale and strong unit economics. Founder-led and deeply experienced management team with strong culture . Our founders, Chaim Indig and Evan Roberts, are pioneers in patient intake who have led our company through consistent and rapid growth over the past 14 years. Our senior leadership team has extensive healthcare, technology and payment knowledge and expertise, and an average 10-year tenure with Phreesia. Additionally, our dedicated sales, implementation, support and development teams also have significant healthcare, technology and payment experience and are a key competitive advantage to our success in the marketplace. Attracting and retaining top talent is a high priority for us. Our strong company culture and investment in the long-term career growth for our people is evidenced by their long tenure with our organization. We believe our success is due in large part to the continued engagement of our talented and committed team. Modern Healthcare magazine recognized Phreesia as one of the Best Places to Work in Healthcare for three consecutive years, optimally positioning us to continue to attract top healthcare and technology talent. Additionally, we have supported our employees needs during the COVID-19 pandemic, including providing the tools needed to work from home and offering flexibility for those who have children at home. Our growth strategies The success of our business depends on acquiring new provider clients and increasing utilization among our existing provider clients, which in turn drives growth across our Platform and solutions. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from a number of prevailing industry tailwinds across patient intake, patient payments and life sciences marketing. We intend to continue to proactively grow the business through the following strategies: Expanding our Platform to new healthcare provider organizations The market for a technology-powered intake and payment platform in the U.S. healthcare industry is early, large and underserved, and we believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our client base and market share. With the ability to support over 25 different medical specialties and existing partnerships with leading PM and EHR providers, the Phreesia Platform is able to serve a large portion of the U.S. ambulatory and acute care market. The Phreesia Platform is currently used by a small percentage of ambulatory care organizations, and we plan to continue to expand our direct sales force to win new clients with a focus on larger ambulatory provider groups across specialties. In fiscal 2019, we also entered into the U.S acute care market and expect this to be a driver of meaningful future growth. Deepening our relationship with existing provider clients We generate recurring fees from our provider clients based on the number of providers who utilize the Phreesia Platform plus subscriptions for any add-on applications. As our provider clients realize the value of the Phreesia Platform, they typically purchase additional subscriptions for their providers. Our sales strategy is focused on expanding our revenue per provider client and we believe there is a significant opportunity to sell new applications as well as add additional provider clients. Continuing to innovate and leverage our Platform to optimize healthcare delivery We believe the depth, scalability and robust capabilities of our Phreesia Platform allow us to address key challenges facing healthcare delivery. As an innovative leader in the patient intake market, we intend to continue to invest in new value-added offerings for our clients. We have a well-defined technology roadmap to introduce new features and functionality to the Phreesia Platform, such as our appointments and cost estimation add-on applications. We intend to leverage our patient database and patient engagement capability to eliminate gaps in care and increase care coordination among all key healthcare constituents. By expanding and continuously enhancing the Phreesia Platform, we believe we can drive incremental revenue from existing clients as well as broaden the appeal of our solutions to potential new clients. Pursuing opportunistic strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions Our strong growth has been completely organic as we have added provider clients and life sciences companies to our Platform while also expanding the solutions we offer those clients. Through our history, we have effectively partnered with leading PM and EHR solution providers, and will continue to evaluate strategic and innovative investments and partnerships to accelerate growth. We believe we are now at an appropriate stage and level of scale where we can consider acquisitions. We completed our first acquisition in December 2018 when we acquired Vital Score, Inc., which expanded our clinical and patient activation offerings and deepened our capabilities in motivational science. 12 Table of Contents Enhancing our margins through continued strategic growth Our business model is based on developing and deploying new, value-added applications for our clients that increase revenue and enhance our attractive client unit economics. We have invested significantly to create a comprehensive, scalable technology platform that allows us to gain operating leverage and enhance margins. We expect to increase profitability and margins by adding larger new clients to our Platform and by expanding our existing clients with minimal incremental investments in our Platform. Moreover, we continually aim to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our Platform. Our products and services Our Platform and suite of solutions are specifically designed to cater to the needs of patients, providers and life sciences companies while improving healthcare engagement. Registration Our Registration applications facilitate mobile and on-site check-in, create a more complete patient record and increase patient convenience and satisfaction. Our Registration solutions include: Phreesia mobile . Our mobile intake platform allows patients to check in securely and conveniently on their computer or mobile device, either prior to their visit or when they arrive at the office. Patients can also update their clinical and demographic information, take a photo to store in their patient record, capture images of their drivers license and insurance card, sign forms and policies and pay copays and outstanding balancesall from the privacy and ease of their own device. 13 Table of Contents PhreesiaPad . Our proprietary, secure tablet ensures ease of use for on-site check-ins. It allows patients to update their information, take a photo to store in their patient record, capture images of their drivers license and insurance card, sign consent forms and pay copays and outstanding balances privately and securely. These tablets are durable, secure and easy for patients of all ages to use. Phreesia arrivals stations. Our Arrivals Stations, designed as a complement to Phreesia Mobile, allow patients to confirm their information and make payments while offering frequently returning or mobile patients a quick and easy self-service intake option. Phreesia dashboard. Our dashboard acts as the command center for the waiting room and allows staff to efficiently monitor the intake process, access relevant patient information and manage registration exceptions. Specific capabilities include: eligibility and benefits verification, e-cashiering, card processing at the time of service, payment plans, card on file, reconciliation reporting, analytics on patient collections and transaction and batch reporting. Specialty-specific intake workflows . Our workflows leverage our proprietary logic to guide patients through a tailored list of questions, allowing them to efficiently enter and verify their demographics, insurance data and clinical information. Consent management. Our automated consent forms streamline the process of collecting consents by ensuring that each patient receives the right forms. These forms can be customized by appointment type and can capture electronic signatures and send required forms directly to the PM or EHR system. Appointments Our Appointments applications allow for convenient online appointment requests for patients, appointment tracking and appointment management in one place, and provide insight into past and upcoming appointments. Our Appointments solutions include: Online appointments . Patients receive 24/7 access to book appointments on a practices website. Appointment requests populate into the Phreesia Appointments Hub for staff to track and schedule. Patients can confirm their appointment time and date via automated text or email. Referrals. Phreesia Referrals tracks all incoming referrals in a centralized list and allows referring providers to send and check the status of each request. Phreesia appointments Hub. Our Appointments Hub centralizes and tracks all incoming appointment requests, verifies patient insurance and allows staff to manage appointments and follow-up visits across multiple locations. The Phreesia Appointments Hub can also schedule appointments directly into select PM systems. Revenue cycle We are able to improve key revenue cycle metrics with our payment solutions, increasing time-of-service and post-visit collections as well as improving patient convenience with online payments and card on file. Our Revenue Cycle solutions include: Point-of-sale payments. Our point-of-sale payments solution offers self-service options on Phreesia Mobile, on the PhreesiaPad or at an Arrivals Station. Provider staff can also process time-of-service or post-explanation of benefits payments on the Phreesia Dashboard. We are able to replace or support a clients existing payment processor with a fast and secure way to process transactions, as we accept all major credit cards (Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover). Additionally, we are Level 1 PCI-compliant and minimize PCI scope in order to prevent significant delays in compliance efforts. Eligibility and benefits verification. Our automated eligibility and benefits application streamlines verification, reduces staffs manual workload and alerts them when attention is needed. We can run eligibility and benefits checks in advance so our clients know their patients primary and secondary insurance before their visit. We have achieved CAQH CORE Phase 1 Certification for seamless, secure healthcare administrative data exchange. 14 Table of Contents E-Cashiering. We are able to track cash, check and card payments using one tool across all users and office locations. Our reports with bi-directional integration with PM systems simplify end-of-day reconciliation and payment posting. Payment plans. Our provider clients can give patients the option to set up private, automated payment plans when they check in, or have the staff create payment plans for them on the Phreesia Dashboard. Each plan is configured according to the healthcare provider organizations financial policies and managed automatically. Online payments. Our online payments application allows practices to add a custom payment button to their website or send email reminders that direct patients to an online payment page. Payment assurance. Our patients may sign a financial policy that gives authorization to store their payment card on a secure platform, thus automatically collecting payments once claims are adjudicated. Cost estimation. This recently developed application searches patients upcoming scheduled appointments and automatically calculates their estimated payment, which staff can manage and track. Clinical support We are committed to delivering the appropriate PROs and assessments to practices as well as helping them efficiently identify at-risk patients and target them for follow-up care. Our Clinical Support solutions include: Care pathways . Our Care Pathways applications provide the necessary tools to identify and treat patients for specific health risks. From orthopedics and gastroenterology to otolaryngology, or ENT, and urology, our targeted clinical assessments screen patients for common morbidities associated with each specialty area. Wellness for primary care. Our Wellness for Primary Care application supports primary care providers as they take on increasing responsibility for their patients mental health needs. It identifies and screens patients for common behavioral and mental health conditions, including depression, anxiety and substance abuse, using questionnaires such as PHQ-2 and PHQ-9. Healthy child for pediatrics. We generate validated PRO data with our Healthy Child application for developmental conditions such as ADHD and autism, as well as behavioral health and wellness data for depression and the flu. Womens wellness. Our Womens Wellness application, which is used in OB/GYN practices, administers clinical questionnaires and gathers PRO data about depression, most recent mammograms and other relevant questions. Patient activation By providing patients with surveys, targeted messages and branded patient announcements before, during and after their visits, we are able to drive patient engagement and awareness of important practice information and available treatments and services. Our Patient Activation solutions include: Post-visit patient surveys. Our surveys are designed to provide clients with a better understanding of their patients experiences as well as insights to drive improvements. The surveys align with industry standards and capture key satisfaction metrics, such as Net Promoter Score. Health campaigns. Our application allows healthcare provider organizations to send targeted messages to specific patients, educating them about the care they need and prompting them to schedule important appointments. Patients can easily self-schedule or request appropriate appointments, such as Medicare annual wellness visits or diabetic eye exams. Social determinants of health. We allow healthcare provider organizations to ask patients privately about their access to healthy food, safe housing and other social determinants that can have a critical impact on their health. The gathered information is automatically integrated within PM and EHR systems, giving providers key data to better understand patients and connect them to needed services. 15 Table of Contents Service promotions. Our clients can use our Platform to promote a health fair, in-house pharmacy, on-site physical therapy or other ancillary services. Announcements. We are able to send patients branded emails to share important announcements such as new locations, office closures and added services. Research. Our application allows clients to deliver targeted questionnaires to patients who may be interested in trials and research studies, generate summary reports and follow up with those who would like to participate. Analytics and reports Our robust analytics suite provides real-time operational, financial and clinical insights across our portfolio of products and applications. Example analytics and reports capabilities within our products include: Registration. Our Platform monitors patient check-in volumes by location and staff member, usage rates for mobile pre-registration and on-site check-ins, the average time it takes for a patient to complete check-in and patient satisfaction levels, among a variety of other registration features. Appointments. Our Platform calculates the volume of incoming appointment requests, tracks the time it takes for patients to schedule appointments and provides insights into top-referring providers. Revenue cycle. Our Platform monitors payments across a healthcare provider organization and reconciles all payments daily. Our Platform also tracks payment volumes by location, batch, user, payment method and type of charge. Clinical support. Our Platform generates reports that analyze PROs, shows the percentage of patients who request follow-up care and captures patient information that helps our provider clients and their patients meet quality reporting goals. Patient activation. Our Platform analyzes the impact of patient communications and preventive health initiatives. Furthermore, it views the number of patients who have seen messages, tracks email and text-message opens and monitors opt-in rates. Patient surveys. Our Platform tracks patient answers by location or provider, benchmarks against similar practices and calculates net promoter scores, which is a popular management tool used to gauge the loyalty of patients to their providers. Data extracts. Our Platform sends a secure, automated daily feed of patient data to a data warehouse or data lake, thereby eliminating the need to download and upload reports. Custom report capability. Our Platform produces custom reports for clients that feature client data such as utilization, social determinants of health, clinical quality and metrics. COVID-19 Product Offerings Our COVID-19 product applications and features are designed to align with our provider clients evolving needs and workflows and help them to stay safe, stay open and continue to see patients. COVID-19 Screening Module. Our module screens patients for self-reported COVID-19 risk factors before their appointment or upon arrival, and alerts both patients and staff to take appropriate action based on patients' responses. The screening module is based on Center for Disease Control guidelines and is updated regularly as those guidelines change. Patient Chat. Our Patient Chat product allows provider clients to send text messages to individual patients about their in-person or virtual visits. This capability helps to reduce face-to-face interactions, decrease phone-call volume and improve patient communication. Intake for Telehealth. Our Intake for Telehealth offering supports provider organizations as they shift visits to telehealth by allowing them to perform all the necessary intake tasks for each virtual visit, including 16 Table of Contents gathering consents, at scale. Intake for Telehealth also provides patients with information about how their telehealth visit will work. Zero-Contact Intake. Our Zero-Contact Intake offering enables clients to reduce contact between patients and staff during in-person visits. The product allows medical practices, emergency departments, urgent-care clinics and other care settings to send a link to patients so they can complete their intake from their home, their car or another no-waiting-room workflow. Staff can manage the intake process from a remote location without needing to handle patients paperwork, ID cards, insurance cards or credit cards. Life sciences Our partnerships with life sciences companies allow us to activate and engage patients by presenting targeted messages to appropriate patient populations, driving improved brand conversion and better patient understanding of behavior modification. Patient connect. Our Patient Connect feature enables clients to engage with relevant patients who voluntarily opt in and deliver pertinent, targeted messages at the point at which they are actively seeking care. Our tools raise awareness and engagement with patients and help them to start the right medical conversation with their physicians. Patient insights. We leverage our Platform to conduct primary research, gather PROs, understand patient sentiments and discover unmet patient needs, which aid life sciences companies in incorporating patient insights in their work. Analytics and predictive modeling. We partner with life sciences companies to develop analytic products to help predict outcomes, identify at-risk or undiagnosed patients and develop clinical decision support tools that may help providers make evidence-based decisions regarding treatment and diagnosis. Our technology We have developed our proprietary SaaS-based technology platform with a focus on delivering reliability, performance, security and privacy. The Phreesia Platform operates as a single, unified, multi-tenant platform that has demonstrated scalability and seamless integration within the operating infrastructure of our provider clients. Our core technology capabilities include: Robust integration. We integrate our technology into PMs, EHRs and ambulatory and acute system workflows for over 1,600 healthcare provider organizations. Data captured from the patient or generated by the use of our Platform automatically integrates into the PM and EHR systems of provider clients. We currently partner with leading PM and EHR providers that collectively represent the majority of the total PM and EHR market. Partners and provider clients can leverage our expanding APIs to embed the functionality of the Phreesia Platform for their patients, while controlling the look and feel. Embedded payments. The payment processing features of our Platform have been designed to operate seamlessly within the workflows of our provider clients, and our revenue cycle solutions can connect directly to payors, to multiple clearinghouses and directly with PM, EHR and other systems. Scalable at cost. We have developed a robust and scalable SaaS-based platform that allows us to quickly iterate on existing technology and develop new solutions quickly and efficiently to meet the needs of our clients. Our unique architecture also allows new integrated applications to be quickly deployed to clients and allows real-time integration without expensive and difficult-to-manage VPN tunnels. This is particularly important in a regulatory and industry environment that continues to evolve. Consumer-oriented. Through technology innovation, we have continued to ensure our products and services evolve to meet growing and increasingly consumer-centric demands. Reliable. Our technology is engineered to provide high reliability and availability. The Phreesia Platform performs hundreds of thousands of transactions, including eligibility and benefits verifications, payment card processing and email and text messaging, quickly and reliably at a low cost every day. 17 Table of Contents Secure and private. We securely manage billions of data points for millions of patients using multiple devices. Maintaining the integrity of our Platform is critical to our business, our clients and the patients they treat. We routinely audit and review our security program. Privacy and security Privacy and security are our top priorities. We maintain a comprehensive security program designed to help safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our clients data, which includes both organizational and technical control measures and the security and privacy of our Platform. We have a system in place to monitor the safety of patient information as well as procedures designed to take immediate action. We operate a single, unified, multi-tenant platform that offers reliability, performance, security and privacy for our clients. Our technology reliably integrates in thousands of client systems, and we have the infrastructure in place with two co-located data centers to handle mass amounts of sensitive patient information. We use security auditors and industry-leading vendors, such as Sikich, Drummond, Bluefin and CORE, to ensure we have the