Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied statements that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial information or state other forward-looking information. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: may, will, could, would, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, project, potential, continue, ongoing, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, cash flows, costs of revenue and operating expenses; the rapidly evolving industry and the market for technology-enabled services in healthcare in the United States being relatively immature and unproven; our reliance on a limited number of clients for a substantial portion of our revenue; our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth; our ability to achieve and grow profitability; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and investments to meet our liquidity needs; our potential competition with our customers or partners; our existing clients not renewing their existing contracts with us, renewing at lower fee levels or declining to purchase additional applications from us; our failure to adequately maintain our direct sales force, impeding our growth; our ability to recover the significant upfront costs in our customer relationships; liability arising from our collection, use, disclosure, or storage of sensitive data collected from or about patients; our reliance on third-party vendors, manufacturers and partners to execute our business strategy; consolidation in the healthcare industry resulting in loss of clients; the uncertainty and ongoing flux of the regulatory and political framework; our ability to determine the size of our target market; the impact of pandemics or epidemics, market volatility, including the recent high inflationary and high interest rate environment, bank failures and measures taken in response thereto, economic slowdowns and recessions, and other global financial, economic and political events on our business and our ability to attract, retain and cross-sell to healthcare services clients; our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property for our technology and products; our inability to implement our solutions for clients resulting in loss of clients and reputation; our dependency on our key personnel, and our ability to attract, hire, integrate, and retain key personnel, including as a result of being a fully remote company; the possibility that we may become subject to future litigation; our future indebtedness and contractual obligations; 4 Table of Contents our expectations regarding trends in our key metrics and revenue from subscription fees from our healthcare services clients, payment processing fees and fees charged to our life sciences and payer clients for delivering direct communications to help activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health; the intended benefits of our acquisitions, including that of Comsort, Inc., d/b/a MediFind ("MediFind") on June 30, 2023, Access eForms, LLC ("Access") on August 11, 2023 and ConnectOnCall.com, LLC ("ConnectOnCall") on October 3, 2023; our plans and expectations regarding operations in India; and other risks and uncertainties, including those listed under the section titled Risk Factors. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based our forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, including, without limitation, those described in the section titled Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in these forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update, and expressly disclaim the obligation to update, any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Phreesia, the Company, we, us, and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Phreesia, Inc. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive software solutions that improve the operational and financial performance of healthcare organizations and improve health outcomes by helping patients take a more active role in their care. Our solutions include SaaS-based integrated tools that manage patient access, registration and payments. We have tools to communicate with patients about their health and have demonstrated increased rates of preventive care and vaccinations.Additionally, our solutions include clinical assessments to screen patients for a variety of physical, behavioral and mental health conditions, helping providers to better understand their patients and connect them to needed services, resulting in improved health outcomes. We also provide life sciences companies, health plans and other payer organizations (payers), patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations with a channel for direct communication with patients. Our solutions also include additional products and services such as the MediFind provider directory, which helps patients find care based on providers' specific clinical expertise. In fiscal 2024, we facilitated patient visits in over 3,900 healthcare services clients across all 50 states. We define a patient visit as an individual, in-person or telehealth visit to a healthcare services provider, which may include multiple encounters by the same patient. Patient intake is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous tasks, including registration, insurance verification, patient questionnaires, patient-reported outcomes ("PROs"), payments and scheduling. Inefficiencies during the intake process often result in lower satisfaction for patients and healthcare services organizations, wasted time, missed revenue opportunities and diminished health outcomes. Phreesias mission is to make care easier every day. We have created an integrated and streamlined system that automates data capture and activates patients before, during and after their interaction with their healthcare services provider. Our comprehensive range of technology solutions and services include initial patient contact, registration, appointment scheduling, payments, automated answering services, and post-appointment patient surveys. We securely collect and analyze each patients information and provide engagement tools to efficiently guide each patient through their healthcare journey. We deploy our solutions across a range of modalities, including through patients mobile devices (Phreesia Mobile), through a web-based dashboard for healthcare services clients (Phreesia Dashboard), and through our self-service intake tablets (PhreesiaPads) and on-site kiosks (Arrivals Kiosks), all of which provide an individualized experience for each patient based on age, gender, appointment type and other clinical and demographic factors. Our solutions are highly customizable and scalable to any size healthcare service organization and can seamlessly integrate within a clients workflows and leading Practice Management, or PM, and Electronic Health Record, or EHR, systems. Our solutions additionally allow for secure time-of-service and post-explanation of benefits integrated payments. We serve an array of healthcare services clients of all sizes across over 25 specialties, ranging from single-specialty practices, including internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology, and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups, and health systems as well as regional and national payers and other organizations that provide other types of healthcare-related services. Our Network solutions revenue (as described below) is generated from clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, as well as payers, patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations seeking to activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health. Our solutions We offer our clients a comprehensive range of technology applications and modules that address the growing needs of the healthcare market by helping patients take a more active role in their care. Our access to care solutions provide a comprehensive appointment scheduling system to provide clients with applications for online appointments, reminders and referral tracking and management, in addition to managing inbound patient calls during and after business hours. Through our MediFind.com provider directory, we enable healthcare services clients to manage their MediFind provider profiles, helping patients to find the best doctors, latest medical advances and active clinical trials, and helping patients to book appointments. Our registration solutions automate patient self-registration before or at the time of the patients visit via Phreesia Mobile or through the use of a purpose-built PhreesiaPad or Arrivals Kiosk for on-site check-in. Our 6 Table of Contents Phreesia Dashboard is used by healthcare services organization staff to monitor and manage the intake process. We also collect clinical intake and PRO data for more than 25 specialties, enabling our clients to ask the right clinical questions of the appropriate patients at the right time and gather key data that aligns with their quality-reporting goals. Our revenue cycle solutions provide insurance-verification processes, point-of-sale payments applications, post-visit payment collection and flexible payment options, which help healthcare services clients maximize the timely collection of patient payments. Our network solutions provide a channel to our life sciences and payer clients that leverages our large and growing network of over 3,900 healthcare services clients. On behalf of our life sciences and payer clients, we deliver clinically relevant content to patients and health plan members who voluntarily opt in to receive this type of engagement. Additionally, our DoctorFinder product allows Life Sciences companies to embed a doctor directory in their own websites, thereby helping patients find appropriate care for their unique needs. Our market opportunity We serve a range of healthcare services clients, including single-specialty practices, large multi-specialty groups and health systems. We provide services to large and small pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies as well as payer organizations. We believe our current addressable market is approximately $10.0 billion and is derived from: (1) the potential $6.3 billion of subscription and related services revenue generated from the approximately 1.4 million U.S.-based healthcare services organizations who take medical appointments in ambulatory care settings and healthcare service providers who work in hospital settings, (2) the estimated potential $2.3 billion of consumer-related transaction and payment processing fees, which are based on a percentage of payments that we process through our platform and address approximately $95.0 billion of annual out of pocket patient spend in ambulatory healthcare related professional services, (3) an estimated potential $1.9 billion in Network solutions revenue, based on projections of direct-to-consumer point-of-care marketing spend and other digital, direct-to-consumer life sciences marketing spend. We estimate that our target client universe in the ambulatory and hospital markets is approximately 50,000 unique healthcare services clients. As we develop new products and services, we expect our total addressable market to grow. Our value proposition We are focused on providing healthcare services organizations, life sciences companies and payer organizations the tools to help patients take a more active role in their care. We believe our solutions provide a unique value proposition that is differentiated from what is offered by the traditional healthcare system. Value proposition for patients Improved patient experience. Our solutions streamline the patient intake process and provides consumer-centric options for check-in. We pre-populate information from prior visits, minimizing the frustration of repetitive questions during the intake process and streamlining the information for review by a clinician by the time the patient reaches the exam room. We also offer patients a convenient, flexible, secure intake experience that saves time and provides clarity regarding the amount of payment due. The MediFind provider directory helps patients find the right care for their unique needs. Patients are also able to save time by making their appointments using our technology. Additionally, our smart answering and after hours care solution improves the patient experience by routing incoming patient calls to the appropriate healthcare resources. Flexible payment options. We provide patients with flexibility and choice in how they pay for healthcare services. Patients are able to pay upfront or set up an automated payment plan that adheres to our healthcare services clients' financial policies. Patients can also choose to pay online on their healthcare services organizations website or place a card on file, removing the need for difficult payment-related conversations with staff. Activation in care. By leveraging the power of self-service and providing individualized and flexible software solutions, we activate patients early in their healthcare journey and provide them with relevant information to further educate them so they can take an active role in their healthcare decisions. Value proposition for healthcare services clients Simplify operations and enhance staff efficiency. We enable healthcare services clients to streamline operations through automated patient intake, automated answering services and payments that are integrated into existing 7 Table of Contents workflows and PM and EHR systems. By automating the numerous tasks and forms associated with the intake process, our healthcare services clients have been able to save time on patient check-ins and inbound calls. Improve cash flow and profitability and gain new business. We enable our healthcare services clients to increase collections and reduce costs. Based on client feedback received and our internal analysis, we believe that our flexible patient payment options, including card on file, have led to an increase in time-of-service collections for the majority of our healthcare services clients. Our automated eligibility and benefits verification solution also reduces the number of denied claims. Additionally, the MediFind provider directory enables providers to enhance their visibility to prospective new patients by including their profiles in the provider directory. Enhance clinical and cost outcomes. We enable our healthcare services clients to more efficiently and effectively capture the right clinical information to meet their clinical goals and align with quality reporting initiatives. Our logic-driven delivery of PROs and other questionnaires help healthcare services clients identify at-risk patients in need of specific care and reduce errors by avoiding the need to manually gather the information. These PROs enable our healthcare services clients to close gaps in care, identify successful treatments and engage patients in their care. Through our subsidiary, Insignia Health, LLC ("Insignia"), we license the exclusive worldwide rights to the Patient Activation Measure ("PAM"), which we believe is widely viewed as the gold standard of patient activation measures. Extensive research over the past decade suggests that the PAM could be a critical pathway in helping healthcare services clients achieve the goals of reducing costs and improving the health of their patients. Beginning in 2024, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") includes the PAM Performance Measure ("PAM-PM") in its Merit-based Incentive Payments System ("MIPS"). Improve patient experience. We activate patients through their journey from access to registration to drive higher patient satisfaction, retention and safety. Our streamlined intake and payments offering provides a consumer-friendly experience and activates patients to take control of their care. Additionally, after obtaining patient consent, we enable healthcare services clients to conduct outreach within 24 hours of visit and generate real-time feedback that informs and drives efforts to improve patient experience. Providers benefit from the increased volumes of patients able to find them through the MediFind provider directory. We also provide an automated answering service that routes and triages incoming patient calls to connect patients with the appropriate care during a practice's normal business hours, as well as a service that connects patients with the appropriate care after hours. Value proposition for life sciences and payer organizations Direct communications. We provide life sciences and payer organizations with a channel to engage healthcare consumers who have voluntarily opted in for such communications, when they are most receptive and actively seeking care. Our data-driven solutions provide life sciences and payer organizations the ability to reach specific populations based on various demographic, clinical, environmental and social data, allowing our clients to activate patients and members with clinically or demographically relevant health content to help facilitate conversations with their providers about treatment and prevention options. Speed diagnosis and increase uptake of preventive health services. Our data and analytics capabilities identify patient populations that align with our life sciences clients audiences. Based on our ongoing analyses of client marketing and education campaigns conducted by data analytics companies, we believe patients exposed to our campaigns are more likely, on average, to receive a relevant diagnosis, undergo a preventive health screening, or receive a relevant treatment, than control patients. Improve brand conversion, treatment, and adherence. Our data and analytics capabilities identify patient populations that align with our life sciences clients audiences. Based on our ongoing analyses of client marketing campaigns conducted by data analytics companies, we believe patients exposed to a brand campaign using our solutions are more likely, on average, to take an action, such as initiating treatment, continuing treatment, or having a prescription filled for that product, than control patients. Learn about patient cohorts. Our Patient Insights solutions provide a channel for our life sciences clients to deliver surveys to patients and capture direct feedback and access relevant population insights. Our competitive landscape We compete in a dynamic patient intake market with direct and indirect competitors that maintain varying degrees of resources and capabilities. We believe many direct competitors are focused on the basic aspects of electronic patient intake and are only starting to expand into the multiple adjacencies beyond patient registration such as access and clinical support. Some of our existing and potential service providers, particularly EHR providers, have 8 Table of Contents developed their own patient intake solutions and have become direct competitors. Our solutions integrate with a majority of the leading EHR systems. We believe companies in the market for comprehensive software solutions, including patient intake, compete on the basis of several factors, including: price; breadth, depth, quality and reliability of product and service offerings; ease of use; ability to drive tangible return on investment; client-focused implementation services and training programs; healthcare domain expertise; patient clinical content offerings; client support and client services; and ability to integrate with all of a clients existing systems, including EHR and/or PM systems. Life sciences marketing is highly competitive and rapidly evolving and consists of both traditional media platforms (e.g. television and print media) as well as more modern web-based and application-based platforms that provide direct-to-consumer marketing for the life sciences industries. Our direct marketing solutions are unique and compete at the point of care as well as pre- and post-visit across an array of digital devices backed by our commitment to transparency and third-party auditing. We compete on the basis of several factors, including price, quality, transparency and the ability to demonstrate meaningful return on investment. Our growth strategies The success of our business depends on acquiring new clients and increasing utilization among our existing clients, which in turn drives growth across our solutions. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from a number of prevailing industry tailwinds across our patient access, registration, revenue cycle and Network solution areas. We intend to continue to proactively grow the business through the following strategies: Expanding our solutions to new healthcare services organizations The market for a technology-powered intake and payment solution in the U.S. healthcare industry is large and underserved, and we believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our client base and market share. With the ability to support over 25 different medical specialties and existing agreements with leading PM and EHR providers, we are able to serve a large portion of the U.S. ambulatory and acute care market. We currently serve a small percentage of ambulatory and acute care organizations, and we plan to continue to utilize our direct sales force to win new clients. Deepening our relationship with existing healthcare services clients We generate recurring fees from our healthcare services clients based on the number of subscriptions to our solutions and add-on applications. As our healthcare services clients realize the value our solutions offer, they typically purchase additional subscriptions for their organizations. Our sales strategy is focused on expanding our revenue per average healthcare services client ("AHSC") and we believe there is a significant opportunity to sell new applications. Continuing to innovate and leverage our solutions We believe our depth, scalability and robust capabilities allow us to address key challenges facing providers, payers and life sciences organizations. As an innovative leader across these segments of healthcare, we intend to continue to invest in new value-added offerings for our clients. We have a well-defined technology roadmap to introduce new features and functionality to our products. We intend to leverage our network and patient activation capabilities to eliminate gaps in care and increase care coordination among all key healthcare constituents. By expanding and continuously enhancing our solutions, we believe we can drive incremental revenue from existing clients as well as broaden our appeal to potential new clients. Pursuing opportunistic strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions Our strong growth has included significant organic growth as we have added healthcare services and life sciences clients, while also expanding the solutions we offer those clients. Throughout our history, we have effectively contracted with leading PM and EHR solution providers and will continue to evaluate strategic and innovative investments and partnerships to accelerate growth. Phreesia has also acquired products and functionalities that 9 Table of Contents expand our suite of solutions. We evaluate many investment, partnership and acquisition opportunities on an ongoing basis. We target opportunities that enhance the breadth or depth of our ability to activate patients in their care. Our acquisitions to date have all been consistent with this philosophy, and we will continue to evaluate growth opportunities that complement our internal initiatives. Enhancing our margins through continued strategic growth Our business model is based on developing and deploying new, value-added applications for our clients that increase revenue and enhance our attractive client unit economics. We have invested significantly and expect to continue investing significantly to create a comprehensive, scalable suite of solutions that allow us to gain operating leverage and enhance margins. Over time, we expect to increase profitability and margins by adding new clients and by expanding our existing clients with minimal incremental investment. Moreover, we continually aim to improve effectiveness and efficiency. Our products and services Our solutions are specifically designed to cater to the needs of patients, healthcare services clients and life sciences and payer companies while improving healthcare engagement. Access to Care Weoffer healthcare services clients convenient online appointment requests for patients, appointment tracking and appointment management in one place, and provide insight into past and upcoming appointments. Our Access to Care solutions include: Provider directory for patients seeking care. On MediFind.com, healthcare services clients in our network can manage and update their profiles, to help new patients discover their services and book appointments. Integrated patient scheduling.We give patients 24/7 access to request or schedule their own in-person or virtual appointments online, either through a link or by responding to patient-outreach by their provider. Once patients self-schedule or send an appointment request, their information automatically populates into the Phreesia Appointments Hub for staff to track and manage. Automated appointment rescheduling. Our appointment rescheduling tool is an automated, text-based solution designed to fill open slots on a healthcare services client's schedule with clinically relevant patients. The tool leverages artificial intelligence and a custom-rules engine to offer earlier appointments for eligible patients as soon as a time slot becomes available. Appointment reminders. With our appointment reminder solution, patients receive email, text, and voice reminders about upcoming in-person and virtual appointments, reducing no-shows for our healthcare services clients. Patient responses to confirm, cancel or reschedule appointments flow directly into the Phreesia Appointments Hub. Patient text messaging. We allow healthcare services clients to send and receive text messages from individual patients about their in-person or virtual visits. This capability helps to reduce face-to-face interactions, decrease phone-call volume and improve patient communication. After-hours care. PhreesiaOnCall helps healthcare services clients manage patients seeking care after-hours. A provider-facing app transcribes patient messages, routes to the on-call provider, and displays key information from the patients chart for a more productive call. Smart answering solution. We help healthcare services clients manage inbound patient calls digitally with the option to follow-up via text message, reducing burden on call center and front desk staff members. Registration Our Registration applications facilitate mobile and on-site check-in, create a more complete patient record and increase patient convenience and satisfaction. These solutions include: Mobile and in-office intake modalities. We allow patients to check in securely and conveniently on their computer or mobile device, either prior to their visit or when they arrive at the office. Patients can also update their clinical and demographic information, take a photo to store in their patient record, capture images of their drivers license and insurance card, sign forms and policies and pay copays and outstanding balancesall from the privacy and ease of their own device. 10 Table of Contents Registration for virtual visits. We support healthcare services clients offering telehealth by allowing them to perform all the necessary intake tasks for each virtual visit, including gathering consents, at scale. Intake for telehealth also provides patients with information about how their telehealth visit will work. Specialty-specific workflows. Our workflows cover over 25 specialties leveraging our proprietary logic to guide patients through a tailored list of questions, allowing them to efficiently enter and verify their demographics, insurance data and clinical information. Consent management. We streamline the process of collecting consents by ensuring that each patient receives the right forms. These forms can be customized by appointment type and can capture electronic signatures and send required forms directly to the PM or EHR system. Self service patient-reported outcomes and screenings. We deliver clinical assessments to screen patients for common morbidities, and we own the worldwide exclusive license to the PAM, a measure that we believe is widely viewed as the gold standard for measuring patient activation. Behavioral health screenings for primary care. We identify and screens patients for common behavioral and mental health conditions, including depression, anxiety and substance abuse. Social determinants of health screening. We enable healthcare services clients to ask patients confidentially about their access to healthy food, safe housing and other social determinants that can have a critical impact on their health, to help healthcare services clients better understand patients and connect them to needed services. Revenue cycle We are able to improve key revenue cycle metrics with our payment solutions, increasing time-of-service and post-visit collections as well as improving patient convenience with online payments and card on file. Our Revenue Cycle solutions include: Point-of-service payments. We offer self-service payment options on Phreesia Mobile, on the PhreesiaPad or at an Arrivals Kiosk. Healthcare services client staff can also process time-of-service or post-explanation of benefits payments on the Phreesia Dashboard. We are able to replace or support a clients existing payment processor with a fast and secure way to process transactions, as we accept all major credit cards (Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover), ApplePay, and other payment methods. Phreesia is a PCI DSS Level 1 Service Provider and offers PCI-compliant point-of-sale solutions that significantly reduce the client's PCI DSS reporting requirements. Insurance verification. Our automated eligibility and benefits application streamlines verification, reduces staffs manual workload and alerts staff when attention is needed. We can run eligibility and benefits checks in advance, so our clients know their patients primary and secondary insurance before their visit. Payment plans. Our healthcare services clients can give patients the option to set up private, automated payment plans when they check in, or have the staff create payment plans for them on the Phreesia Dashboard. Each plan is configured according to the healthcare services clients financial policies and managed automatically. Online payments. We allow practices to add a custom payment button to their website or send email reminders that direct patients to an online payment page. Card on file and payment assurance. Patients may sign a financial policy that gives authorization to store their payment card on our secure solution, thus automatically collecting payments once claims are adjudicated. Network Solutions We provide several opportunities for third parties to engage with the patients and providers who are using the tools and products we offer. Education and engagement before, during and after the visit. PatientConnect is our point of care offering which enables third parties to deliver personalized health content to users who opt to receive it after they have completed checking in for a doctor's appointment via Phreesia's intake software. Clients of this tool include life sciences organizations, health plans, and patient advocacy groups. Educational and promotional 11 Table of Contents content about health is delivered to raise patient awareness and help patients start the right conversations with their providers, improving outcomes for these individuals. Educational material includes information about different therapy options to assist in advocating for their needs and preferences; disease education, which speeds up the time to diagnosis; screening tools and information to aid in early detection and disease prevention; and public service materials about vaccines, avoiding use of tobacco products, and more. Patient insights. Similar to delivery of educational materials, we conduct primary research among interested users after they check in for appointments via our intake software to understand sentiments and behaviors, uncover unmet needs, and learn about preferences and health beliefs. These insights aid clients in understanding their patients experiences and enhancing their existing products and services. Referral management. We offer a suite of referral management tools for healthcare services clients that enable them to track incoming referrals in a centralized list, send referrals to specialists, and check the status of each request. Our technology We have continued to enhance and develop our proprietary solutions with a focus on delivering reliability, performance, security and privacy. Our solutions have demonstrated scalability and robust integration within the operating infrastructure of our healthcare services clients. Our core technology capabilities include: Robust integration. We integrate our technology into PMs, EHRs and ambulatory and acute system workflows for over 3,900 healthcare services clients. Data captured from the patient or generated by the use of our solutions automatically integrate into the PM and EHR systems of healthcare services clients. We currently contract with leading PM and EHR providers that collectively represent the majority of the total PM and EHR market. These providers of PM and EHR solutions and our healthcare services clients can leverage our expanding APIs to embed the functionality of our solutions for their patients, while controlling the look and feel. Embedded payments. Our payment processing features have been designed to operate seamlessly within the workflows of our healthcare services clients, and our revenue cycle solutions can connect directly to those making payments, to multiple clearinghouses and directly with PM, EHR and other systems. Scalable at cost. Our robust and scalable SaaS-based solution allows us to iterate on existing technology and develop new solutions quickly and efficiently to meet the needs of our clients. Our unique architecture also allows new integrated applications to be quickly deployed to clients and allows real-time integration without expensive and difficult-to-manage VPN tunnels. This is particularly important in a regulatory environment and industry that continues to evolve. Consumer-oriented. Through technological innovation, we have continued to ensure our products and services evolve to meet growing and increasingly consumer-centric demands. Our technological innovations include enhancements to our user interface, which we believe has improved user experience, accessibility and satisfaction. Reliable. Our technology is engineered to provide strong reliability and availability. We process hundreds of thousands of transactions, including eligibility and benefits verification, payment card processing and email and text messaging, quickly and reliably at a low cost every day. Secure and private. We securely manage billions of data points for millions of patients using multiple devices. Maintaining the integrity of our solutions is critical to our business, our clients and the patients they treat. As our product offerings increase and become more robust, we continue to enhance and evolve our security program. Privacy and security Privacy and security are our top priorities. We maintain a comprehensive security program designed to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our clients data. In particular, we deploy physical, administrative and technical controls to appropriately safeguard patient information. We offer reliability, performance, security and privacy for our clients. We have infrastructure in place with three co-located data centers, and within Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Service environments, to securely manage and maintain our clients information. We use external security auditors and industry-leading vendors, such as Sikich, A-LIGN, and Bluefin to ensure we have the