Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains express or implied statements that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance and may contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial information or state other forward-looking information. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: may, will, could, would, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, project, potential, continue, ongoing, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future operational or financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, cash flows, costs of revenue and operating expenses; the rapidly evolving industry and the market for technology-enabled services in healthcare in the United States being relatively immature and unproven; our reliance on a limited number of clients for a substantial portion of our revenue; our anticipated growth and growth strategies and our ability to effectively manage that growth; our ability to achieve and grow profitability; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and investments to meet our liquidity needs; our potential competition with our customers or partners; our existing clients not renewing their existing contracts with us, renewing at lower fee levels or declining to purchase additional applications from us; our failure to adequately maintain our direct sales force, impeding our growth; our ability to recover the significant upfront costs in our customer relationships; liability arising from our collection, use, disclosure, or storage of sensitive data collected from or about patients; our reliance on third-party vendors, manufacturers and partners such as Rayden Design Studio Private Limited (Rayden) and DataArt Solutions, Inc. ("DataArt") to execute our business strategy; consolidation in the healthcare industry resulting in loss of clients; the uncertainty and ongoing flux of the regulatory and political framework; our ability to determine the size of our target market; the impact of pandemics or epidemics, market volatility, including the recent high inflationary environment, economic slowdowns and recessions, and other global financial, economic and political events on our business and our ability to attract, retain and cross-sell to healthcare services clients; our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property for our technology and products; our reliance on third-party vendors, manufacturers and partners to execute our business strategy; our inability to implement our solutions for clients resulting in loss of clients and reputation; our dependency on our key personnel, and our ability to attract, hire, integrate, and retain key personnel, including as a result of being a fully remote company; the possibility that we may become subject to future litigation; our future indebtedness and contractual obligations; 4 Table of Contents our expectations regarding trends in our key metrics and revenue from subscription fees from our healthcare services clients, payment processing fees and fees charged to our life sciences and payer clients for delivering direct communications to help activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health; our ability to realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions; and other risks and uncertainties, including those listed under the caption Risk Factors. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based our forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, including, without limitation, those described in the section titled Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in these forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update, and expressly disclaim the obligation to update, any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statistical and other industry and market data that we obtained from industry publications and research, surveys and studies conducted by third parties. Industry publications and third-party research, surveys and studies generally indicate that their information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, although they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information contained in such sources. NOTE REGARDING COMPANY REFERENCES Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms Phreesia, the Company, we, us, and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Phreesia, Inc. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive software solutions that improve the operational and financial performance of healthcare organizations by activating patients in their care to optimize patient health outcomes. Through our SaaS-based technology platform, which we refer to as the Phreesia Platform or our Platform, we offer healthcare services clients a robust suite of integrated solutions that manage patient access, registration and payments. Our Platform also provides life sciences companies, health plans and other payer organizations (payers), patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations with a channel for direct communication with patients. In fiscal 2023, we facilitated patient visits in over 2,800 healthcare services clients across all 50 states. We define a patient visit as an individual, in-person or telehealth visit to a healthcare services provider, which may include multiple encounters by the same patient. Additionally, our Platform processed nearly $3.3 billion in patient payments in fiscal 2023, of which 80% were credit and debit card patient payment volume that we processed as a payment facilitator. Payment facilitator volume is a major driver of our payment processing revenue. Patient intake is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous tasks, including registration, insurance verification, patient questionnaires, patient-reported outcomes ("PROs"), payments and scheduling. Inefficiencies during the intake process often result in lower satisfaction for patients and healthcare services organizations, wasted time, missed revenue opportunities and diminished health outcomes. Phreesias mission is to create a better, more engaging healthcare experience. We have created an integrated and streamlined system that automates data capture and activates patients before, during and after their interaction with their healthcare services provider. As evidenced in industry survey reports from healthcare IT research firm KLAS, we have been recognized as a market leader based on our integration capabilities with healthcare services organizations, the broad adoption of our software solutions, our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and by overall client satisfaction. The Phreesia Platform encompasses a comprehensive range of technologies and services, including, but not limited to, initial patient contact, registration, appointment scheduling, payments and post-appointment patient surveys. The Phreesia Platform securely collects and analyzes each patients information and provides engagement tools to efficiently guide each patient through their healthcare journey. We deploy our Platform across a range of modalities, including through patients mobile devices (Phreesia Mobile), through a web-based dashboard for healthcare services clients (Phreesia Dashboard) and through our self-service intake tablets (PhreesiaPads) and on-site kiosks (Arrivals Kiosks), all of which provide an individualized experience for each patient based on age, gender, appointment type and other clinical and demographic factors. Our solutions are highly customizable and scalable to any size healthcare service organization and can seamlessly integrate within a clients workflows and leading Practice Management, or PM, and Electronic Health Record, or EHR, systems. Our Platform additionally allows for secure time-of-service and post-explanation of benefits integrated payments. We serve an array of healthcare services clients of all sizes across over 25 specialties, ranging from single-specialty practices, including internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology, and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups, and health systems as well as regional and national payers and other organizations that provide other types of healthcare-related services. Our network solutions revenue (as described below) is generated from clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industries, as well as payers, patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations seeking to activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health. Our Platform The Phreesia Platform has evolved to offer our clients a comprehensive range of technology applications and modules that address the growing needs of the healthcare market by activating patients in their care. Our access solution provides a comprehensive appointment scheduling system to provide clients with applications for online appointments, reminders and referral tracking and management. Our registration solution automates patient self-registration via Phreesia Mobileeither before or at the time of the patients visitor through the use of a purpose-built PhreesiaPad or Arrivals Kiosk for on-site check-in. The solution also includes the Phreesia Dashboard, which healthcare services organization staff use to monitor and manage the intake process. The solution also collects clinical intake and PRO data for more than 25 6 Table of Contents specialties, enabling our clients to ask the right clinical questions of the appropriate patients at the right time and gather key data that aligns with their quality-reporting goals. Our revenue cycle solution provides insurance-verification processes, point-of-sale payments applications, post-visit payment collection and flexible payment options, which help healthcare services clients maximize the timely collection of patient payments. Our network connect solution provides a channel to our life sciences and payer clients that leverages our large and growing network of over 2,800 healthcare services clients. We deliver clinically relevant content to patients and health plan members who voluntarily opt in, on behalf of our life sciences and payer clients. We believe life sciences clients value our network connect solutions because they allow patients to have more informed conversations with their providers. We believe payer clients value our network connect solutions because they help them attract new members and engage and better understand their existing membership. Our market opportunity The Phreesia Platform serves a range of healthcare services clients, including single-specialty practices, large multi-specialty groups and health systems. Through our network connect solutions, we provide services to large and small pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies as well as payer organizations. We believe the current addressable market for our Platform and services is approximately $10.0 billion and is derived from: (1) the potential subscription and related services revenue generated from the approximately 1.5 million U.S.-based healthcare services organizations who take medical appointments in ambulatory care settings and healthcare service providers who work in hospital settings, (2) consumer-related transaction and payment processing fees, which are based on a percentage of payments that can be processed via the Phreesia Platform and address approximately $95.0 billion of annual out of pocket patient spend in ambulatory healthcare related professional services, (3) a portion of the $6.0 billion spent by life sciences companies on direct-to-consumer prescription drug marketing, and (4) a portion of the $1.0 billion spent by health plans on member acquisition and retention. We estimate that our target client universe in the ambulatory and hospital markets is approximately 50,000 unique healthcare services clients. As we develop new products and services on the Phreesia Platform, we expect our total addressable market to grow. Our value proposition We are focused on creating a better, more engaging healthcare experience for patients, healthcare services organizations, life sciences companies and payer organizations by activating patients in their care. We believe our solutions provide a unique value proposition that is differentiated from what is offered by the traditional healthcare system. Value proposition for patients Improved patient experience . Our Platform streamlines the patient intake process and provides consumer-centric options for check-in. We pre-populate information from prior visits, minimizing the frustration of repetitive questions during the intake process and streamlining the information for review by a clinician by the time the patient reaches the exam room. We also offer patients a convenient, flexible, secure intake experience that saves time and reduces the confusion and anxiety around payments. Patients are also able to save time by making their appointments using our technology. Flexible payment options. Our Platform provides patients with flexibility and choice in how they pay for healthcare services. Patients are able to pay upfront or set up an automated payment plan that adheres to our healthcare services clients' financial policies. Patients can also choose to pay online on their healthcare services organizations website or place a card on file. Our Platform also removes the need for difficult payment-related conversations with staff and ensures a level of personal privacy throughout the transaction. Activation in care. By leveraging the power of self-service and providing individualized and flexible software solutions, we activate patients early in their healthcare journey and provide them with relevant information to further educate them so they can take an active role in their healthcare decisions. Value proposition for healthcare services clients Simplify operations and enhance staff efficiency. We enable healthcare services clients to streamline operations through automated patient intake and payments that are integrated into existing workflows and PM and EHR 7 Table of Contents systems. By automating the numerous tasks of the intake process, our healthcare services clients have been able to save time on patient check-ins. Improve cash flow and profitability. We enable our healthcare services clients to increase collections and reduce costs. Based on client feedback received and our internal analysis, we believe that our flexible patient payment options, including card on file, have led to an increase in time-of-service collections for the majority of our healthcare services clients. Our automated eligibility and benefits verification solution also reduces the number of denied claims. Enhance clinical and cost outcomes. We enable our healthcare services clients to more efficiently and effectively capture the right clinical information to meet their clinical goals and align with quality reporting initiatives. Our logic-driven delivery of PROs and other questionnaires help healthcare services clients identify at-risk patients in need of specific care and reduce errors by avoiding the need to manually gather the information. These PROs enable our healthcare services clients to close gaps in care, identify successful treatments and engage patients in their care. Through our subsidiary, Insignia Health, LLC ("Insignia"), we license the exclusive worldwide rights to the Patient Activation Measure ("PAM"), which we believe is widely viewed as the gold standard of patient activation measures. Extensive research over the past decade suggests that the PAM could be a critical pathway in helping healthcare services clients achieve the goals of reducing costs and improving the health of their patients. Improve patient experience. We activate patients through their journey from access to registration to drive higher patient satisfaction, retention and safety. Our streamlined intake and payments offering provides a consumer-friendly experience and activates patients to take control of their care. Through our patient surveys, healthcare services clients are able to conduct outreach to patients within 24 hours of visit and generate real-time feedback that informs and drives efforts to improve patient experience. Value proposition for life sciences and payer organizations Direct communications. We provide life sciences and payer organizations with a channel to activate patients by identifying, reaching, educating and communicating with patients who voluntarily opt in, when they are most receptive and actively seeking care. Our data-driven solutions provide direct patient and member outreach based on various demographic, clinical, environmental and social data, allowing our clients to activate patients and members with clinically or demographically relevant health content to help facilitate conversations with their providers about treatment and prevention options or to gain a better understanding of the health insurance products that best fit their individual needs. Improve diagnosis and uptake of preventative health services. Our data and analytics capabilities identify patient populations that align with our life sciences clients audiences. Based on our ongoing analyses of client marketing and education campaigns conducted by data analytics companies, we believe patients exposed to such campaigns using the Phreesia Platform are more likely, on average, to receive a relevant diagnosis, undergo a preventative health screening, or receive a relevant treatment, than control patients. Improve brand conversion, treatment, and adherence. Our data and analytics capabilities identify patient populations that align with our life sciences clients audiences. Based on our ongoing analyses of client marketing campaigns conducted by data analytics companies, we believe patients exposed to a brand campaign using the Phreesia Platform are more likely, on average, to take an action, such as having a prescription filled for that product, than control patients. Feedback from patient voice. Our Patient and Member Insights solutions provide a channel for our life sciences and payer clients to deliver dynamic surveys to patients and members and capture direct feedback and access relevant population insights. Member engagement: We provide payer organizations with a unique channel to identify seniors 64 years and older who are interested in learning more about different Medicare products available to them. Our platform and network enable us to connect eligible and interested seniors with health plan agents who can educate them about the Medicare products that may best suit their needs. We believe our solution delivers timely, actionable qualified leads to health plans for potential member engagement. Our competitive landscape We compete in a dynamic patient intake market with direct and indirect competitors that maintain varying degrees of resources and capabilities. We believe many direct competitors are focused on the basic aspects of electronic patient intake and are only starting to expand into the multiple adjacencies beyond patient registration such as access and clinical support. Some of our existing and potential service providers, particularly EHR providers, have developed their own patient intake solutions and have become direct competitors. The Phreesia Platform is 8 Table of Contents integrated with a majority of the leading EHR systems. KLAS, an independent healthcare information technology research firm, evaluates Phreesia against many of these direct competitors and named Phreesia the top-ranked patient intake management vendor for four years in a row, based on direct feedback from healthcare organizations across the country. We believe companies in the market for comprehensive software solutions, including patient intake, compete on the basis of several factors, including: price; breadth, depth, quality and reliability of product and service offerings; ease of use; ability to drive tangible return on investment; client-focused implementation services and training programs; healthcare domain expertise; patient clinical content offerings; client support and client services; and ability to integrate with all of a clients existing systems, including EHR and/or PM systems. Life sciences marketing is highly competitive and rapidly evolving and consists of both traditional media platforms (e.g. television and print media) as well as more modern web-based and application-based platforms that provide direct-to-consumer marketing for the life sciences industries. Our direct marketing solutions are unique and compete at the point of care as well as pre- and post-visit across an array of digital devices backed by our commitment to transparency and third-party auditing. We compete on the basis of several factors, including price, quality, transparency and the ability to demonstrate meaningful return on investment. Health plan member acquisition programs are competitive and highly regulated. Health plans are promoted through direct mailings, telemarketing, and advertising on radio, television, websites, and social media channels. Our direct marketing solutions are delivered at the point of care as well as pre-visit across an array of digital devices backed by our commitment to transparency and third-party auditing. We compete on the basis of several factors, including price, speed, quality, and the ability to demonstrate meaningful return on investment . Our growth strategies The success of our business depends on acquiring new clients and increasing utilization among our existing clients, which in turn drives growth across our Platform and solutions. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from a number of prevailing industry tailwinds across our patient access, registration, revenue cycle and network connect solution areas. We intend to continue to proactively grow the business through the following strategies: Expanding our Platform to new healthcare services organizations The market for a technology-powered intake and payment platform in the U.S. healthcare industry is large and underserved, and we believe we have a substantial opportunity to grow our client base and market share. With the ability to support over 25 different medical specialties and existing agreements with leading PM and EHR providers, the Phreesia Platform is able to serve a large portion of the U.S. ambulatory and acute care market. The Phreesia Platform is currently used by a small percentage of ambulatory and acute care organizations, and we plan to continue to utilize our direct sales force to win new clients. Deepening our relationship with existing healthcare services clients We generate recurring fees from our healthcare services clients based on the number of subscriptions to our base Platform plus subscriptions for any add-on applications. As our healthcare services clients realize the value of the Phreesia Platform, they typically purchase additional subscriptions for their organizations. Our sales strategy is focused on expanding our revenue per average healthcare services client ("AHSC") and we believe there is a significant opportunity to sell new applications. Continuing to innovate and leverage our Platform We believe the depth, scalability and robust capabilities of our Phreesia Platform allow us to address key challenges facing providers, payers and life sciences organizations. As an innovative leader across these segments of healthcare, we intend to continue to invest in new value-added offerings for our clients. We have a well-defined technology roadmap to introduce new features and functionality to the Phreesia Platform that activate patients in their care. We intend to leverage our patient database and patient activation capabilities to eliminate gaps in care and increase care coordination among all key healthcare constituents. By expanding and continuously enhancing 9 Table of Contents the Phreesia Platform, we believe we can drive incremental revenue from existing clients as well as broaden the appeal of the Phreesia Platform to potential new clients. Pursuing opportunistic strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions Our strong growth has been mostly organic, as we have added healthcare services clients as well as life sciences and payer organizations to our Platform, while also expanding the solutions we offer those clients. Through our history, we have effectively contracted with leading PM and EHR solution providers and will continue to evaluate strategic and innovative investments and partnerships to accelerate growth. We also have acquired products and functionalities that complement our offering. We evaluate many investment, partnership and acquisition opportunities on an ongoing basis. We target opportunities that enhance the breadth or depth of our ability to activate patients in their care. Our acquisitions to date have all been consistent with this philosophy, and we will continue to evaluate growth opportunities that complement our internal initiatives. Enhancing our margins through continued strategic growth Our business model is based on developing and deploying new, value-added applications for our clients that increase revenue and enhance our attractive client unit economics. We have invested significantly and expect to continue investing significantly to create a comprehensive, scalable technology platform that allows us to gain operating leverage and enhance margins. Over time, we expect to increase profitability and margins by adding new clients to our Platform and by expanding our existing clients with minimal incremental investments in our Platform. Moreover, we continually aim to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our Platform. Our products and services Our Platform and suite of solutions are specifically designed to cater to the needs of patients, healthcare services clients and life sciences and payer companies while improving healthcare engagement. Our robust analytics suite provides real-time operational, financial and clinical insights across our portfolio of products and services. Access Our Access solutions allow for convenient online appointment requests for patients, appointment tracking and appointment management in one place, and provide insight into past and upcoming appointments. Our Appointments solutions include: Appointment reminders . Patients receive 24/7 access to book appointments on a practices website. Appointment requests populate into the Phreesia Appointments Hub for staff to track and schedule. Patients can confirm their appointment time and date via automated text or email. 10 Table of Contents Integrated patient scheduling. Our integrated patient scheduling solution gives patients 24/7 access to request or schedule their own in-person or virtual appointments online, either through a link or by responding to patient-outreach by their provider. Once patients self-schedule or send an appointment request, their information automatically populates into the Phreesia Appointments Hub for staff to track and manage. Automated appointment rescheduling. Our automated appointment rescheduling tool is an automated, text-based solution designed to fill open slots on a healthcare services client's schedule with clinically relevant patients. The tool leverages artificial intelligence and a custom-rules engine to offer earlier appointments for eligible patients as soon as a time slot becomes available. Patient text messaging. Our patient text messaging product allows healthcare services clients to send and receive text messages from individual patients about their in-person or virtual visits. This capability helps to reduce face-to-face interactions, decrease phone-call volume and improve patient communication. Registration Our Registration applications facilitate mobile and on-site check-in, create a more complete patient record and increase patient convenience and satisfaction. Our Registration solutions include: Mobile and in-office intake modalities . Our Phreesia Mobile intake platform allows patients to check in securely and conveniently on their computer or mobile device, either prior to their visit or when they arrive at the office. Patients can also update their clinical and demographic information, take a photo to store in their patient record, capture images of their drivers license and insurance card, sign forms and policies and pay copays and outstanding balancesall from the privacy and ease of their own device. Registration for virtual visits . Our registration for virtual visits offering supports healthcare services clients as they continue to shift visits to telehealth by allowing them to perform all the necessary intake tasks for each virtual visit, including gathering consents, at scale. Intake for telehealth also provides patients with information about how their telehealth visit will work. Specialty-specific workflows . Our workflows leverage our proprietary logic to guide patients through a tailored list of questions, allowing them to efficiently enter and verify their demographics, insurance data and clinical information. Consent management. Our automated consent forms streamline the process of collecting consents by ensuring that each patient receives the right forms. These forms can be customized by appointment type and can capture electronic signatures and send required forms directly to the PM or EHR system. Self service patient-reported outcomes and screenings We deliver clinical assessments to screen patients for common morbidities and the appropriate PROs and assessments for a wide range of medical specialties including orthopedics, gastroenterology, otolaryngology, or ENT, and urology. We also own the worldwide exclusive license to the PAM, a measure that we believe is widely viewed as the gold standard for measuring patient activation. Behavioral health screenings for primary care. Our wellness for primary care application supports primary care providers as they take on increasing responsibility for their patients mental health needs. It identifies and screens patients for common behavioral and mental health conditions, including depression, anxiety and substance abuse, using questionnaires such as PHQ-2 and PHQ-9. Social determinants of health screening. We enable healthcare services clients to ask patients privately about their access to healthy food, safe housing and other social determinants that can have a critical impact on their health. The gathered information is automatically integrated within PM and EHR systems, giving healthcare services clients key data to better understand patients and connect them to needed services. Revenue cycle We are able to improve key revenue cycle metrics with our payment solutions, increasing time-of-service and post-visit collections as well as improving patient convenience with online payments and card on file. Our Revenue Cycle solutions include: 11 Table of Contents Point-of-service payments. Our point-of-service payments solution offers self-service options on Phreesia Mobile, on the PhreesiaPad or at an Arrivals Kiosk. Healthcare services client staff can also process time-of-service or post-explanation of benefits payments on the Phreesia Dashboard. We are able to replace or support a clients existing payment processor with a fast and secure way to process transactions, as we accept all major credit cards (Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover). Phreesia is a PCI DSS Level 1 Service Provider and offers PCI-compliant point-of-sale solutions that significantly reduce the client's PCI DSS reporting requirements. Insurance verification. Our automated eligibility and benefits application streamlines verification, reduces staffs manual workload and alerts staff when attention is needed. We can run eligibility and benefits checks in advance, so our clients know their patients primary and secondary insurance before their visit. We have achieved Coalition of Affordable Quality Healthcare ("CAQH") CORE Phase 1 Certification for seamless, secure healthcare administrative data exchange. Payment plans. Our healthcare services clients can give patients the option to set up private, automated payment plans when they check in, or have the staff create payment plans for them on the Phreesia Dashboard. Each plan is configured according to the healthcare services clients financial policies and managed automatically. Online payments. Our online payments application allows practices to add a custom payment button to their website or send email reminders that direct patients to an online payment page. Card on file and payment assurance. Patients may sign a financial policy that gives authorization to store their payment card on a secure platform, thus automatically collecting payments once claims are adjudicated. Network connect Our Phreesia network allows us to activate, engage and educate patients and members on behalf of life sciences and payer clients by presenting direct communications to patients and members about topics critical to their health. Our partnerships also provide insights to help clients better understand patient and member needs and perspectives. Patient and member education and engagement . Our Patient Connect product enables clients to engage with relevant patients who voluntarily opt in and deliver pertinent content at the point at which they are actively seeking care. We believe our tools raise patient awareness and help them to start the right conversations with their providers. Our tools can be used for disease education to speed time-to-diagnosis, screening to aid in early detection and disease prevention, and vaccine and therapy awareness to promote treatment and immunization."Our Member Connect product helps health plans attract new members and engage and better understand their existing membership. Our tools allow us to measure member activation levels and connect eligible and interested seniors with health plan agents who can educate them about the Medicare products that may best suit their needs. We believe our solution delivers timely, actionable, qualified leads to health plans for potential member acquisition. Referral management. Our Provider Connect tool tracks incoming referrals in a centralized list and allows referring healthcare services clients to send and check the status of each request. Patient and member insights We leverage patient and member insights within our Platform to conduct primary research to understand patient sentiments and uncover unmet patient needs, which aid life sciences and payer clients in enhancing their existing products and services. Our surveys are designed to provide clients with a better understanding of their patients' and members' experiences as well as insights to drive improvements in health outcomes. Our technology We have continued to enhance and develop our proprietary SaaS-based technology platform with a focus on delivering reliability, performance, security and privacy. The Phreesia Platform operates as a single, unified, multi-tenant platform that has demonstrated scalability and robust integration within the operating infrastructure of our healthcare services clients. Our core technology capabilities include: Robust integration. We integrate our technology into PMs, EHRs and ambulatory and acute system workflows for over 2,800 healthcare services clients. Data captured from the patient or generated by the use of our Platform automatically integrates into the PM and EHR systems of healthcare services clients. We currently contract with leading PM and EHR providers that collectively represent the majority of the total 12 Table of Contents PM and EHR market. These providers of PM and EHR solutions and our healthcare services clients can leverage our expanding APIs to embed the functionality of the Phreesia Platform for their patients, while controlling the look and feel. Embedded payments. The payment processing features of our Platform have been designed to operate seamlessly within the workflows of our healthcare services clients, and our revenue cycle solutions can connect directly to those making payments, to multiple clearinghouses and directly with PM, EHR and other systems. Scalable at cost. We have developed a robust and scalable SaaS-based platform that allows us to iterate on existing technology and develop new solutions quickly and efficiently to meet the needs of our clients. Our unique architecture also allows new integrated applications to be quickly deployed to clients and allows real-time integration without expensive and difficult-to-manage VPN tunnels. This is particularly important in a regulatory environment and industry that continues to evolve. Consumer-oriented. Through technological innovation, we have continued to ensure our products and services evolve to meet growing and increasingly consumer-centric demands. Our technological innovations include enhancements to our user interface, which we believe has improved user experience and satisfaction. Reliable. Our technology is engineered to provide strong reliability and availability. The Phreesia Platform performs hundreds of thousands of transactions, including eligibility and benefits verifications, payment card processing and email and text messaging, quickly and reliably at a low cost every day. Secure and private. We securely manage billions of data points for millions of patients using multiple devices. Maintaining the integrity of our Platform is critical to our business, our clients and the patients they treat. We continue to enhance and evolve our security program. Privacy and security Privacy and security are our top priorities. We maintain a comprehensive security program designed to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our clients data. In particular, we deploy physical, administrative and technical controls to protect the security and privacy of patient information. We operate a single, unified, multi-tenant platform that offers reliability, performance, security and privacy for our clients. We have infrastructure in place with three co-located data centers, and within Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Service environments, to securely manage and maintain our clients patient information. We use external security auditors and industry-leading vendors, such as Sikich, A-LIGN, and Bluefin to ensure we have the