ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our financial statements and related notes thereto included in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis and information set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Financial highlights Total revenue increased 18% to $33.4 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, compared with $28.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. Net loss was $6.1 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, compared to $6.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. Adjusted EBITDA was positive $1.5 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, compared to negative $0.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. Cash provided by operating activities was positive $1.9 million and free cash flow was negative $1.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss and free cash flow, to cash provided by (used in) operating activities, and for more information as to how we define and calculate such measures, see the section below titled Non-GAAP financial measures. Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive solutions that transform the healthcare experience by engaging patients in their care and enabling healthcare provider organizations to optimize operational efficiency, improve profitability and enhance clinical care. As evidenced in industry survey reports from KLAS, a healthcare information technology and insights company, we have been recognized as a leader based on our integration capabilities with healthcare provider organizations, the broad adoption of our patient intake functionalities and by overall client satisfaction. Through the SaaS-based Phreesia Platform, we offer our provider clients a robust suite of solutions to manage the patient intake process and an integrated payments solution for secure processing of patient payments. Our Platform also provides life sciences companies with an engagement channel for targeted and direct communication with patients. We serve an array of healthcare provider organizations of all sizes ranging from single-specialty practices, which include internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups. Our life sciences business additionally serves clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We derive revenue from (i) subscription fees from healthcare provider organizations for access to the Phreesia Platform and related professional services fees, (ii) payment processing fees based on levels of patient payment volume processed through the Phreesia Platform, and (iii) fees from life science companies to deliver digital marketing content to patients using the Phreesia Platform. We have strong visibility into our business as the majority of our revenue is derived from recurring subscription fees and re-occurring payment processing fees. We market and sell our products and services to provider clients throughout the United States using a direct sales organization divided into several highly targeted and coordinated teams, which are concentrated in Raleigh, North Carolina, New York, New York and Ottawa, Canada. Our demand generation team develops content and identifies prospects that our sales development team researches and qualifies to generate high-grade, actionable sales programs. Our direct sales force executes on these qualified sales programs, partnering with client services to ensure prospects are educated on the breadth of our capabilities and demonstrable value proposition, with the goal of attracting and retaining clients and expanding their use of our Platform over time. Most of our Platform solutions are contracted pursuant to annual, auto-renewing agreements. Our sales typically involve competitive processes and sales cycles have, on average, varied in duration from two months to eight months, depending on the size of the potential client. However, there is potential for our sales cycle to extend beyond two to eight months as a result 26 Table of Contents of COVID-19. In addition, through Phreesia University (Phreesias in-house training program), events, client conferences and webinars, we help our provider clients optimize their businesses and, as a result, support client retention. Since our inception, we have not marketed or sold our products internationally. Accordingly, all of our revenue from historical periods has come from the United States, and our current strategy is to continue to focus our sales efforts within the United States. Our revenue growth has been entirely organic and reflects our significant addition of new provider clients and increased revenue from existing clients. New provider clients are defined as clients that go live in the applicable period and existing provider clients are defined as clients that go live in any period before the applicable period. Recent developments COVID-19 In December 2019, an outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) originated in Wuhan, China and spread to a number of other countries, including the United States, where we have offices in New York City and Raleigh, N.C., and to Canada, where our Ottawa office is located. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19. The impact of the outbreak has been rapidly evolving and has led to the implementation of various responses, including government-imposed quarantines, travel restrictions, business and school closures and other public health safety measures, which, in turn, have resulted in a decline in patient visits. Because our business relies, in part, on the growth and success of our clients and certain revenues are driven by patient engagements, the decline in patient visits due to the cancellation and rescheduling of non-essential and elective visits will directly impact our revenue as follows: Subscription and related services : The current travel restrictions and provider office closures has, and will likely continue to, impact our subscription and related services revenue because of disruptions to sales processes and client implementations. Payment processing : The decline in non-essential and elective visits has, and will likely continue to, also directly impact the revenue we receive from payment processing tools. Life sciences : Because our life sciences revenue is driven by the number of patients receiving targeted messages, the recent decline in patients visits has, and will likely continue to, directly impact our revenue earned through patient engagements. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected workforces, organizations, governments, customers, economies, and financial markets globally, leading to an economic downturn and increased market volatility. It has also disrupted the normal operations of many businesses, including ours. This outbreak, as well as intensified measures undertaken to contain the spread of COVID-19, could decrease healthcare industry spending, adversely affect demand for our technology and services, cause one or more of our customers to file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business, cause one or more of our customers to fail to renew, terminate, or renegotiate their contracts, affect the ability of our sales team to travel to potential customers and the ability of our professional services teams to conduct in-person services and trainings, impact expected spending from new customers, negatively impact collections of accounts receivable, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. It is not possible for us to predict the duration or magnitude of the adverse results of the outbreak and its effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition at this time. Key metrics We regularly review the following key metrics to measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections, make strategic business decisions and assess working capital needs. Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 2019 Key Metrics: Provider clients (average over period) 1,632 1,549 Average revenue per provider client $ 16,735 $ 15,649 Patient payment volume (in millions) $ 454 $ 461 27 Table of Contents Provider clients . We define provider clients as the average number of healthcare provider organizations that generate revenue each month during the applicable period. In one specific case wherein we act as a subcontractor providing white-label services to our partners clients, we treat this contractual relationship as a single provider client. We believe growth in the number of provider clients is a key indicator of the performance of our business and depends, in part, on our ability to successfully develop and market our Platform to healthcare provider organizations that are not yet clients. While growth in the number of provider clients is an important indicator of expected revenue growth, it also informs our management of the areas of our business that will require further investment to support expected future provider client growth. For example, as the number of provider clients increases, we may need to add to our customer support team and invest to maintain effectiveness and performance of our Platform and software for our provider clients and their patients. Average revenue per provider client. We define average revenue per provider client as the total subscription and related services and payment processing revenue generated from provider clients in a given period divided by the average number of provider clients that generate revenue each month during that same period. We are focused on continually delivering value to our provider clients and believe that our ability to increase average revenue per provider client is an indicator of the long-term value of our existing provider client relationships. Patient payment volume . We measure patient payment volume as the total dollar volume of transactions between our provider clients and their patients utilizing our payment platform, including via credit and debit cards, cash and check. Patient payment volume is a major driver of our payment processing revenue, and we believe that patient payment volume is an indicator of both the underlying health of our provider clients businesses and the continuing shift of healthcare costs to patients. Credit and debit patient payment volume processed through our payment facilitator model represented 84% and 83% of our patient payment volume in the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The remainder of our patient payment volume is composed of credit and debit transactions for which Phreesia acts as a gateway to another payment processor, and cash and check transactions. Non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss, before net interest expense (income), provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and before non-cash based compensation expense, non-cash change in fair value of warrant liability and other income (expense), net. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget, and to develop short and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the amounts eliminated in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: although depreciation and amortization expense are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) the potentially dilutive impact of non-cash stock-based compensation; or (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; (4) net interest expense (income); and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA along with other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net loss, and our GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss for each of the periods indicated: 28 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands, unaudited) 2020 2019 Net loss $ (6,112) $ (6,695) Interest (income) expense 320 804 Depreciation and amortization 3,621 3,374 Stock-based compensation expense 2,872 599 Change in fair value warrant liability 423 Provision for income taxes 111 68 Other (income) expense 715 1,145 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,527 $ (282) We calculate free cash flow as net cash flow from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software development costs. Additionally, free cash flow is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions and strengthening our financial position. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow from net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,903 $ 2,033 Less: Capitalized internal-use software (1,160) (1,411) Purchases of property and equipment (1,917) (1,314) Free cash flow $ (1,174) $ (692) Components of statements of operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from providing an integrated SaaS-based software and payment platform for the healthcare industry. We derive revenue from subscription fees and related services generated from our provider clients for access to the Phreesia Platform, payment processing fees based on the levels of patient payment volume processed through the Phreesia Platform, and from digital marketing revenue from life sciences companies to reach, educate and communicate with patients when they are most receptive and actively seeking care. Our total revenue consists of the following: Subscription and related services. We primarily generate subscription fees from our provider clients based on the number of providers that subscribe to and utilize the Phreesia Platform. Our provider clients are typically billed monthly in arrears, though in some instances, provider clients may opt to be billed quarterly or annually in advance. Subscription fees are typically auto-debited from provider clients accounts every month. As we target and add larger enterprise provider clients, these clients may choose to contract differently than our typical per provider subscription model. To the extent we charge in an alternative manner with larger enterprise provider clients, we expect that such a pricing model will recur and, combined with our per provider subscription fees, will increase as a percentage of our total revenue. In addition, we receive certain fees from provider clients for professional services associated with our implementation services as well as travel and expense reimbursements, shipping and handling fees, sales of hardware (PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Stations), on-site support and training. Payment processing fees. We generate revenue from payment processing fees based on the number of transactions and the levels of patient payment volume processed on credit and debit cards on the Phreesia 29 Table of Contents Platform through our payment facilitator model. Payment processing fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the total transaction dollar value processed and/or a fee per transaction. Credit and debit patient payment volume processed through our payment facilitator model represented roughly 84% of our total patient payment volume in the three months ended April 30, 2020. The remainder of our patient payment volume is composed of credit and debit transactions for which Phreesia acts as a gateway to another payment processor, and cash and check transactions. Life sciences. We generate revenue from the sale of digital marketing solutions to life sciences companies. As we expand our provider client base, we increase the number of new patients we can reach to deliver targeted marketing content on behalf of our life sciences clients. Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Our cost of revenue primarily consists of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation for implementation and technical support, and costs to verify insurance eligibility and benefits, infrastructure costs to operate our Platform such as hosting fees and fees paid to various third-party partners for access to their technology. Payment processing expense Payment processing expense consists primarily of interchange fees set by payment card networks and that are ultimately paid to the card-issuing financial institution, assessment fees paid to payment card networks, and fees paid to third-party payment processors and gateways. Payment processing expense may change as a percentage of payment processing revenue if card networks change pricing for interchange and assessment fees or if we change pricing to our clients or as the mix of various card type usage changes. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and commission costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Sales and marketing expense also includes costs for advertising, promotional and other marketing activities, as well as certain fees paid to various third-party partners for sales and lead generation. Advertising is expensed as incurred. Research and development Research and development expense consists of costs for the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products and services and are generally expensed as incurred. These costs consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation for our development personnel. Research and development expense also includes product management, life sciences analytics costs, third-party partner fees and third-party consulting fees. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our executive, finance, legal, human resources, information technology and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expense also includes consulting, legal, security, accounting services and allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our operations and continue to operate as a public company, although we expect such expense to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time. Depreciation Depreciation represents depreciation expense for PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Stations, data center and other computer hardware, purchased computer software, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements. Amortization Amortization primarily represents amortization of our capitalized internal-use software related to the Phreesia Platform as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets. Other income (expense) Our other income and loss line items consist of the following: Other income (expense) . Other income (expense) consists of foreign currency-related gains and losses and other income (expense). 30 Table of Contents Change in fair value of warrant liability . Prior to our initial public offering, the Company had preferred stock warrants which were marked to market based on third-party valuations and the change in fair value was recorded in other income (expense). Upon the closing of our IPO, the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of preferred stock automatically converted into warrants to purchase shares of common stock. Upon such conversion, we reclassified the warrants to equity and recorded the then current value of the warrant liability on the date of reclassification to additional paid-in-capital, a component of stockholders equity. Interest income . Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalent balances. Interest income has not been material to our operations to date. Interest expense . Interest expense consists primarily of the interest incurred on our financing obligations as well as amortization of discounts and deferred financing costs. Provision for income taxes Based upon our historical operating losses and the available evidence, we have determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets as of April 30, 2020 will not be realized in the near term. On the basis of this evaluation, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets that are not more likely than not to be realized at April 30, 2020 and January 31, 2020. In future periods, if we conclude we have future taxable income sufficient to recognize the deferred tax assets, we may reduce or eliminate the valuation allowance. Comparison of the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Subscription and related services $ 15,599 $ 12,683 $ 2,916 23 % Payment processing fees 11,707 11,557 150 1 % Life sciences 6,090 4,070 2,020 50 % Total revenue $ 33,396 $ 28,310 $ 5,086 18 % Subscription and related services . Our subscription and related services revenue from healthcare provider organizations increased $2.9 million to $15.6 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $12.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019, primarily due to expansion of and cross-selling to existing provider clients as well as new provider clients added during the quarter. Payment processing fees . Our revenue from patient payments processed through the Phreesia Platform increased $0.1 million to $11.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $11.6 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was due to a mix of transactions priced with higher per transaction revenue offset by a decrease in the volume of patient payments processed through the Phreesia Platform driven by a decline in patient visits in the second half of the quarter as non-essential and elective visits were cancelled or rescheduled due to COVID-19. Life sciences. Our revenue from life science clients for digital marketing increased $2.0 million to $6.1 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $4.1 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019 due to an increase in new digital marketing solutions programs and an increase in scale among the existing programs. Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 4,734 $ 3,996 $ 738 18 % Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) increased $0.7 million to $4.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $4.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase resulted primarily from increases in implementation and deployment expenses of $0.7 million and payments to third-party partners of $0.1 million. 31 Table of Contents Stock compensation incurred related to cost of revenue was $0.1 million and $0.03 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Payment processing expense Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Payment processing expense $ 6,848 $ 6,949 $ (101) (1) % Payments processing expense decreased $0.1 million to $6.8 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $6.9 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in patient payments processed through the Phreesia Platform driven by a decline in patient visits in the second half of the quarter as non-essential and elective visits were cancelled or rescheduled due to COVID-19, and by some lower cost payment routing. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 9,434 $ 7,702 $ 1,732 22 % Sales and marketing expense increased $1.7 million to $9.4 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $7.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was primarily attributable to headcount and total compensation increases of $1.9 million, offset by a decrease in costs attributed to digital marketing solutions of $0.2 million. Stock compensation incurred related to sales and marketing expense was $0.7 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Research and development Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 5,005 $ 4,299 $ 706 16 % Research and development expense increased $0.7 million to $5.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $4.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase resulted primarily from total compensation increases of $0.3 million and an increase in product management of $0.4 million. Stock compensation incurred related to research and development expense was $0.5 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. General and administrative Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 8,720 $ 6,245 $ 2,475 40 % General and administrative expense increased $2.5 million to $8.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $6.2 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase resulted primarily from increases in total compensation expense, software fees, and insurance for coverage obtained for operating as a public company. Stock compensation incurred related to general and administrative expense was $1.6 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Depreciation Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Depreciation $ 2,268 $ 2,155 $ 113 5 % 32 Table of Contents Depreciation expense increased $0.1 million to $2.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to $2.2 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was attributable to PhreesiaPad, Arrivals Stations and data center depreciation. Amortization Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Amortization $ 1,353 $ 1,219 $ 134 11 % Amortization expense increased $0.1 million to $1.4 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $1.2 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The increase was due to amortization associated with increased capitalized internal-use software development costs. Other income (expense) Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Other income (expense) $ (715) $ (1,145) $ 430 (38) % Other income (expense) decreased by $0.4 million to $0.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to $1.1 million as there was no related loss on extinguishment of debt in the three months ended April 30, 2020. This is offset by an increase in foreign currency-related losses for the three months ended April 30, 2020. Change in fair value of warrant liability Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Change in fair value of warrant liability $ $ (423) $ 423 (100) % The change in fair value of warrant liability decreased $0.4 million, to $0 in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to an expense of $0.4 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. The decrease resulted from the IPO transaction in our fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2019 which converted all outstanding liability classified warrants to equity classified warrants. Interest income (expense) Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Interest income (expense) $ (320) $ (804) $ 484 (60) % Interest expense decreased $0.5 million to $0.3 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to $0.8 million in the three months ended April 30, 2019. Interest expense decreased compared to prior year as there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit as of April 30, 2020. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 $ Change % Change Provision for income taxes $ (111) $ (68) $ (43) 63 % Provision for income taxes increased in the three months ended April 30, 2020, as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019 primarily due to the accrual for certain state income taxes. Seasonality Largely due to our focus on the healthcare industry, certain seasonal factors may cause us to record higher revenue in some quarters compared with others. For example, we receive a large increase in payment processing revenue during the first two to three months of the calendar year, primarily due to the resetting of patient deductibles at the beginning of each calendar year. Orders for our life sciences solutions are seasonal, primarily due to the annual 33 Table of Contents spending patterns of our clients. While we believe we have visibility into the seasonality of our business, our rapid growth rate over the last couple years may have made seasonal fluctuations more difficult to detect. If our rate of growth slows over time, seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced, and our business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Liquidity and capital resources Since our inception in 2005 and until the completion of our IPO, we financed our operations primarily through the private sale of preferred stock and from various debt arrangements. In July 2019, we completed our IPO in which we and certain of our selling stockholders sold 10,681,423 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $18.00 per share, resulting in aggregate proceeds to us of approximately $130.8 million, net of underwriters discounts and commissions, and before deducting offering costs of approximately $6.4 million. As of April 30, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $90.3 million. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit and held in money market accounts. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our available financial resources from our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Silicon Valley Bank facility In February 2019, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or the SVB facility, which provides for a secured term loan facility, which is structured as three term loan advances, totaling up to $45.0 million and secured revolving loan credit facility totaling up to $25.0 million. On February 28, 2019, we borrowed $20.0 million as a term loan borrowing and used the proceeds to pay the outstanding principal amount under a loan and security agreement with another lender. Term loan borrowings under the SVB facility accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to the Wall Street Journal prime rate plus 1.50%; provided that, upon demonstrating an Adjusted EBITDA in an aggregate amount of at least $10.0 million for any 12 month period after closing, interest will instead accrue at a per annum rate equal to the Wall Street Journal prime rate plus 0.75%. Revolving loan borrowings under the SVB facility accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to the greater of (i) the Wall Street Journal prime rate minus 0.50% and (ii) 5.00%; provided that, upon demonstrating an Adjusted EBITDA in an aggregate amount of at least $10.0 million for any 12 month period after closing, interest will instead accrue at a per annum rate equal to the greater of (i) the Wall Street Journal prime rate minus 0.75% and (ii) 4.75%. Interest for both term loan and revolving loan borrowings is payable monthly. Principal payments due under the term loan are due in 36 equal monthly installments beginning in March 2021. The maturity date of the agreements, including the revolving credit facility, is five years from the closing date of February 28, 2019, which is February 28, 2024. As of April 30, 2020, the Company had $25.0 million of availability under the revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the SVB facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets, excluding intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge). We are subject to various financial reporting requirements and financial covenants under the SVB facility, including maintaining minimum revenue levels and a minimum liquidity level. In addition, there are negative covenants restricting certain activities, including incurring indebtedness or liens, encumbering intellectual property, paying dividends or distributions to stockholders, and making certain investments. The loan may be prepaid at any time for an amount equal to the outstanding balance; plus accrued and unpaid interest; plus an amount equal to 2.75% of the original principal amount of all term loan borrowings; plus a prepayment fee of between 1.0% and 3.0%, depending on how much time prior to the maturity date the prepayment is made. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the IPO to fully repay our revolving line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank, which had an outstanding balance of $17.7 million as of the closing of the IPO on July 22, 2019. As of April 30, 2020, we had $20.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the SVB facility and $0 outstanding under the revolving line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank. On May 5, 2020, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The Second Restated Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $50.0 million that replaces the Company's existing line of credit of up to $25.0 million (with options to increase to up to $65.0 million). The Company used approximately $20.0 million of the proceeds to pay off the existing term loan as of April 30, 2020. 34 Table of Contents Refer to Note 16 to our unaudited financial statements included in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further detail. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019: Three Months Ended April 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,903 $ 2,033 Net cash used in investing activities (3,077) (2,725) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,111 5,062 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (63) $ 4,370 Operating activities During the three months ended April 30, 2020 cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 million, principally resulting from our net loss of $6.1 million, adjustments to reconcile net loss of $7.8 million and changes in working capital of $0.3 million. The primary drivers attributable to the changes in working capital include changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, deferred contract acquisition costs, and lease liability of $2.2 million, $1.0 million, $0.7 million, and $0.5 million, respectively, offset by changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities, prepaid and other assets, and deferred revenue of $1.9 million, $1.6 million, and $1.2 million, respectively. During the three months ended April 30, 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $2.0 million, principally resulting from our net loss of $6.7 million, adjustments to reconcile net loss of $6.1 million and changes to working capital of $2.6 million. Investing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $3.1 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures, principally hardware used by clients and purchase of data center equipment of $1.9 million and capitalized internal-use software costs of $1.2 million. During the three months ended April 30, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $2.7 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures of $1.3 million and capitalized internal-use software of $1.4 million. Financing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.1 million, consisting of $1.7 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options, offset by $0.6 million in finance lease and loan facility payments. During the three months ended April 30, 2019, cash provided financing activities was $5.1 million, principally resulting from $7.4 million in net borrowings under our line of credit less $1.0 million for payments of principal on long-term debt, $0.5 million for payments related to finance leases, $0.4 million for debt extinguishment and issuance costs, and $0.4 million for offering costs. In February 2019, $20.0 million was drawn down by the SVB facility and proceeds were used to pay principal amount with another lender. Contractual obligations and commitments Our principal commitments consist of long-term debt obligations, interest on long-term debt, and finance lease, operating lease, and purchase obligations. During the three months ended April 30, 2020, there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020. For additional information, see Notes 6 and 12 to our unaudited financial statements include in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 35 Table of Contents Payments due by period (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years More than 5 years Long-term debt obligations $ 20,000 $ 556 $ 13,333 $ 6,111 $ Interest on long-term debt 4,109 1,400 1,906 803 Finance lease obligations 4,986 2,145 2,841 Operating lease obligations 3,126 1,284 1,842 Purchase obligations 1,848 1,848 Total $ 34,069 $ 7,233 $ 19,922 $ 6,914 $ Critical accounting policies and estimates Our unaudited financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our unaudited financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2020. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 3 to our unaudited financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements . Off-balance sheet arrangements As of April 30, 2020 and January 31, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 3. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We have operations both within the United States and in Canada, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. These risks primarily include interest rate and foreign exchange risks. Interest Rate Risk Our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit and money market funds. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing income without significantly increasing risk. Because our cash equivalents have a short maturity, our portfolios fair value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes. We do not believe that an increase or decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points would have a material effect on our operating results or financial condition. In future periods, we will continue to evaluate our investment policy in order to ensure that we continue to meet our overall objectives. Foreign Currency Exchange Risks We have foreign currency risks related to our expenses denominated in Canadian dollars, which are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our statements of operations. We have engaged in foreign currency hedging transactions to minimize those fluctuations. To date, foreign currency transaction gains and losses have not been material to our financial statements.