ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our financial statements and related notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2024. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis and information set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. We discuss factors that we believe could cause or contribute to these differences below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including those set forth under Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Financial Highlights Total revenue increased 21% to $101.2 million in the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared with $83.8 million in the three months ended April 30, 2023. Net loss was $19.7 million in the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to a net loss of $37.5 million in the three months ended April 30, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA was $4.1 million in the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to negative $13.8 million in the three months ended April 30, 2023. Net cash used in operating activities was $0.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $13.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. Free cash flow was negative $6.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 compared to negative $19.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. Cash and cash equivalents as of April 30, 2024 was $79.5 million, a decrease of $8.0 million compared to January 31, 2024. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities, and for more information as to how we define and calculate such measures, see the section below titled Non-GAAP financial measures. Overview We are a leading provider of comprehensive software solutions that improve the operational and financial performance of healthcare organizations and improve health outcomes by helping patients take a more active role in their care. Our solutions include SaaS-based integrated tools that manage patient access, registration and payments. We have tools to communicate with patients about their health and have demonstrated increased rates of preventive care and vaccinations. Additionally, our solutions include clinical assessments to screen patients for a variety of physical, behavioral and mental health conditions, helping providers to better understand their patients and connect them to needed services, resulting in improved health outcomes. We also provide life sciences companies, health plans and other payer organizations (payers), patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations with a channel for direct communication with patients. Our solutions also include additional products and services such as the MediFind provider directory, which helps patients find care based on providers' specific clinical expertise. We serve an array of healthcare services clients of all sizes across over 25 specialties, ranging from single-specialty practices, including internal and family medicine, urology, dermatology, and orthopedics, to large, multi-specialty groups, and health systems as well as regional and national payers and other organizations that provide other types of healthcare-related services. Our Network solutions revenue (as described below) is generated from clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries as well as payers, patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations seeking to activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health. We derive revenue from (i) subscription fees from healthcare services clients for access to our solutions and related professional services fees, (ii) payment processing fees based on levels of patient payment volume processed through our solutions and (iii) fees from life sciences and payer clients for delivering direct communications to help activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health using our solutions. We also generate revenue through our additional products and services such as the MediFind provider directory, which helps patients 29 Table of Contents find care based on providers' specific clinical expertise. We have strong visibility into our business as the majority of our revenue is derived from recurring subscription fees and re-occurring payment processing fees. We market and sell our products and services to healthcare services prospects throughout the U.S. using a direct sales organization. Our database team is responsible for the hygiene and health of our data and is tasked with validating information by using various tools to enrich it. This data powers our sales development organization. Our marketing team identifies customer profiles, develops content and deploys one-to-many communications to soften the market. This helps prepare our sales development team to outbound to prospects. The sales development team creates opportunities and works with the direct sales team to qualify those opportunities. Our sales force executes on these qualified sales leads, partnering with sales enablement and client services to ensure prospects are educated on the breadth of our capabilities and demonstrable value proposition, with the goal of attracting and retaining clients and expanding their use of our solutions over time. Most of our healthcare services customer contracts are structured as annual, auto-renewing agreements. Our sales typically involve competitive processes and sales cycles have, on average, varied in duration from three months to six months, depending on the size of the potential client. In addition, through Phreesia University (Phreesias in-house training program), events, client conferences and webinars, we help our healthcare services clients optimize their businesses and, as a result, support client retention. We also sell products and services to life sciences and payer organizations, healthcare advertising agencies and advocacy groups as well as advertising agencies through our direct sales and marketing teams. Unlike healthcare services programs, most of the life science campaigns need to be measured and resold each year. Like healthcare services, the marketing team supports net new business and client retention for life sciences by educating ideal customer profiles about the value of Phreesia and the positive impact on health outcomes Phreesia campaigns have on patients. Since our inception, we have focused substantially all of our sales efforts within the United States. Accordingly, substantially all of our revenue from historical periods has come from the United States, and our current strategy is to continue to focus substantially all of our sales efforts within the United States. Our revenue growth has been primarily organic and reflects our significant addition of new healthcare services clients. New healthcare services clients are defined as clients that go live in the applicable period and existing healthcare services clients are defined as clients that go live in any period before the applicable period. Recent developments and current economic conditions Change Healthcare Cybersecurity Incident On February 21, 2024, Change Healthcare (CHC), a vendor we use, experienced a significant cybersecurity incident. Immediately upon becoming aware of the incident, CHC disconnected clients from their services, including services we use for eligibility and benefits (E&B) checks on behalf of our healthcare provider partners (HCPs) and a patient payments platform for which we process payments. Our security team promptly reviewed our systems and determined that there was no evidence that our system had been compromised as a result of the CHC cybersecurity event. Subsequently, we re-routed E&B business to other clearinghouses where available. Payment processing fees revenue generally grows in line with our network growth. However, patient payment volume in the first quarter was negatively impacted by the Change Healthcare outage that began in late February. As we noted last quarter, this attack impacted a major part of the U.S. healthcare infrastructure including many of our clients. Included in our patient payment volume and payment processing fees revenue is a long-standing relationship we have with a clearinghouse client. The client contracted with Phreesia to act as their merchant processor for patient payments, while also contracting with Change Healthcare to operate their online payment portal and handle print communications. In 2022, the client had made the decision to consolidate to one vendor for multiple solutions. The product scope and cost associated with the clients desired new relationship, which would include print statements, drove us to the conclusion that the best path forward for Phreesia was to work with the client to wind-down the relationship by the end of our fiscal year 2026. The cyberattack on Change Healthcare and subsequent outage accelerated the wind-down of our relationship because Change Healthcare did not bring the online portal used by our client back online. As a result, our patient payment volume declined, reducing our payment processing revenue by approximately $1.7 million in the fiscal first quarter of 2025. 30 Table of Contents While the accelerated wind-down of the clearinghouse relationship negatively impacted payment processing revenue, which increased by 12% over the first quarter of fiscal 2024, the accelerated wind-down did not materially impact our total revenues, which increased by 21% over the first quarter of fiscal 2024, our net cash used in operating activities, which improved by $13 million over the first quarter of fiscal 2024, or our overall results of operations. UnitedHealth Group, the parent company to CHC, has indicated a substantial portion of U.S. residents may have had their PHI/PII affected by the incident. However, we currently have no specific indication from CHC as to whether the data we sent to CHC has been breached. CHC has indicated they are working closely with law enforcement and regulatory authorities to identify appropriate next steps. We are continuing to monitor the situation regarding new developments and remain in close communication with CHC. Ascension Health Alliance Cybersecurity Incident On May 8, 2024, Ascension Health (Ascension), one of our customers, experienced a significant cybersecurity incident. In response to the incident, Ascension shut down certain systems including electronic health records systems and portals enabling patients to view their health records and communicate with their providers. Ascension has indicated that the outage has caused them to divert patients from certain of their hospitals to other providers. We are currently unable to estimate the potential impact that the Ascension outage will have on our healthcare services revenues for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. We will continue to monitor the Ascension outage and provide any relevant updates as the year progresses. We are continuing to monitor the situation regarding new developments and remain in close communication with Ascension. ConnectOnCall Cybersecurity Incident On May 12, 2024, we learned of a service disruption to the ConnectOnCall service, an application created by a subsidiary we acquired in October 2023. While investigating this matter, we determined that a cybercriminal had gained access to the ConnectOnCall service. The ConnectOnCall service remains offline, and we are working diligently to assess the potential impact and restore the service. We have engaged with law enforcement, and we are working with a third-party cybersecurity firm and other experts to support our investigation. The ConnectOnCall service is separate from our other services, including our patient intake platform. Based on our investigation to date, we have seen no evidence that our other services have been affected. We understand the importance of this service to our clients business, and we are working to restore the ConnectOnCall service as quickly as is feasible. Additionally, as of this time, the incident has not had a material impact on our overall business operations, nor do we believe the incident is likely to have a material impact, based on our investigation to date and our current understanding that this incident is limited to the ConnectOnCall service. Macroeconomic environment and geopolitical conditions Our business is directly and indirectly affected by macroeconomic conditions, geopolitical conditions and the state of global financial markets. Recent geopolitical uncertainty resulting, in part, from military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict in the Middle East, as well as other macro-economic conditions, such as the impact of pandemics, increased interest rates, inflation in the cost of goods, services and labor, or a recession or an economic slowdown in the U.S. or internationally have contributed to significant volatility and declines in global financial markets. The uncertainty over the extent and duration of the ongoing conflict and these macroeconomic conditions continues to cause disruptions to businesses and markets worldwide. While none of these factors individually has had a material impact on our business to date, it is difficult to predict the potential impact these factors may have on 31 Table of Contents our future business results, and each could adversely impact our business operations, financial performance and results of operations. Key Metrics We regularly review the following key metrics to measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections, make strategic business decisions and assess working capital needs. Three months ended April 30, Unaudited 2024 2023 Key Metrics: Average number of healthcare services clients ("AHSCs") 4,065 3,309 Healthcare services revenue per AHSC $ 18,155 $ 18,779 Total revenue per AHSC $ 24,900 $ 25,338 AHSCs. We define AHSCs as the average number of clients that generate subscription and related services or payment processing revenue each month during the applicable period. In cases where we act as a subcontractor providing white-label services to our partner's clients, we treat the contractual relationship as a single healthcare services client. We believe growth in AHSCs is a key indicator of the performance of our business and depends, in part, on our ability to successfully develop and market our solutions to healthcare services organizations that are not yet clients. While growth in AHSCs is an important indicator of expected revenue growth, it also informs our management of the areas of our business that will require further investment to support expected future AHSC growth. For example, as AHSCs increase, we may need to add to our customer support team and invest to maintain effectiveness and performance of our solutions for our healthcare services clients and their patients. Healthcare services revenue per AHSC. We define Healthcare services revenue as the sum of subscription and related services revenue and payment processing revenue. We define Healthcare services revenue per AHSC as healthcare services revenue in a given period divided by AHSCs during that same period. We are focused on continually delivering value to our healthcare services clients and believe that our ability to increase healthcare services revenue per AHSC is an indicator of the long-term value of the our solutions. Healthcare services revenue per AHSC was $18,155 in the three months ended April 30, 2024 compared to $18,779 in the same period in the prior year, a decrease of 3%. The decline was primarily driven by AHSC growth significantly outpacing growth in payment processing volume and payment processing revenue. Total revenue per AHSC. We define Total revenue per AHSC as Total revenue in a given period divided by AHSCs during that same period. Our healthcare services clients directly generate subscription and related services and payment processing revenue. Additionally, our relationships with healthcare services clients who subscribe to our technology give us the opportunity to engage with life sciences companies, health plans and other payer organizations, patient advocacy, public interest and other not-for-profit organizations who deliver direct communication to patients through our solutions. As a result, we believe that our ability to increase Total revenue per AHSC is an indicator of the long-term value of our solutions. Total revenue per AHSC was $24,900 in the three months ended April 30, 2024 as compared to $25,338 in the same period in the prior year, a decrease of 2%. The decrease was driven primarily by healthcare services clients growth outpacing payment processing revenue growth. Additional Information Three months ended April 30, Unaudited 2024 2023 Patient payment volume (in millions) $ 1,166 $ 1,016 Payment facilitator volume percentage 81 % 82 % Patient payment volume. We believe that patient payment volume is an indicator of both the underlying health of our healthcare services clients businesses and the continuing shift of healthcare costs to patients. We measure patient payment volume as the total dollar volume of transactions between our healthcare services clients and their patients utilizing our payment platform, including via credit and debit cards that we process as a payment facilitator as well as cash and check payments and credit and debit transactions for which we act as a gateway to other payment processors. 32 Table of Contents Payment facilitator volume percentage. We define payment facilitator volume percentage as the volume of credit and debit card patient payment volume that we process as a payment facilitator as a percentage of total patient payment volume. Payment facilitator volume is a major driver of our payment processing revenue. Components of consolidated statements of operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from providing an integrated SaaS-based software and payment platform for the healthcare industry. We derive revenue from subscription fees and related services generated from our healthcare services clients for access to our solutions, payment processing fees based on the levels of patient payment volume we process, and from fees from life sciences and payer clients for delivering direct communications to help activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health. Our total revenue consists of the following: Subscription and related services. We primarily generate subscription fees from our healthcare services clients based on the number of healthcare services clients that subscribe to and utilize our solutions. Our healthcare services clients are typically billed monthly in arrears, though in some instances, healthcare services clients may opt to be billed quarterly or annually in advance. Subscription fees are typically auto-debited from healthcare services clients accounts every month. As we target and add larger enterprise healthcare services clients, these clients may choose to contract differently than our typical per healthcare services client subscription model. To the extent we charge in an alternative manner with larger enterprise healthcare services clients, we expect that such a pricing model will recur and, combined with our per healthcare services client subscription fees, will increase as a percentage of our total revenue. In addition, we receive certain fees from healthcare services clients for professional services associated with our implementation services as well as travel and expense reimbursements, shipping and handling fees, sales of hardware (PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Kiosks), on-site support and training. Payment processing fees. We generate revenue from payment processing fees based on the number of transactions and the levels of patient payment volume processed through our solutions. Payment processing fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the total transaction dollar value processed and/or a fee per transaction. Credit and debit patient payment volume processed through our payment facilitator model represented 81% and 82% of our patient payment volume in the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The remainder of our patient payment volume is composed of credit and debit transactions for which Phreesia acts as a gateway to another payment processor, and cash and check transactions. Patient payment responsibility typically declines as a share of total spending as the calendar year progresses due to benefit design. Consistent with that trend, payment volume on a per client basis has historically been lower in the second half of our fiscal year as compared to the first half of our fiscal year. Network solutions. We generate revenue from life sciences and payer clients for delivering direct communications to patients. As we expand our healthcare services client base, we increase the number of new patients we can reach to deliver our direct communications that help activate, engage and educate patients about topics critical to their health on behalf of life sciences and payer clients. Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Our cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) primarily consists of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and bonuses for implementation and technical support, and infrastructure costs to operate our solutions such as hosting fees and fees paid to various third-party providers for access to their technology, as well as costs to verify insurance eligibility and benefits. Payment processing expense Payment processing expense consists primarily of interchange fees set by payment card networks and that are ultimately paid to the card-issuing financial institution, assessment fees paid to payment card networks, and fees paid to third-party payment processors and gateways. Payment processing expense may increase as a percentage of payment processing revenue if card networks raise pricing for interchange and assessment fees or if we reduce pricing to our clients. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits, bonuses and commission costs for our sales and marketing personnel. Sales and marketing expense also 33 Table of Contents includes costs for advertising, promotional and other marketing activities, as well as certain fees paid to various third-party partners for sales and lead generation. Advertising is expensed as incurred. Research and development Research and development expense consists of costs to develop our products and services that do not meet the criteria for capitalization as internal-use software. These costs consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for our development personnel. Research and development expense also includes third-party partner fees and third-party consulting fees. General and administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for our executive, finance, legal, security, human resources, information technology and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expense also includes software costs to support our finance, legal and human resources operations, insurance costs as well as fees to third-party providers for accounting, legal and consulting services, costs for various non-income-based taxes and software costs. Depreciation Depreciation represents depreciation expense for PhreesiaPads and Arrivals Kiosks, data center and other computer hardware, purchased computer software, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements. Amortization Amortization primarily represents amortization of our capitalized internal-use software related to our solutions as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets. Other income, net Our other income and expense line items consist of the following: Other expense, net. Other expense, net consists of foreign currency-related losses and gains and other miscellaneous (expense) income. Interest income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalent balances. Interest expense. Interest expense consists primarily of the interest incurred on our financing obligations as well as amortization of discounts and deferred financing costs. Provision for income taxes Based upon our cumulative pre-tax losses in recent years and available evidence, we have determined that it is more likely than not that substantially all of our U.S. deferred tax assets as of April 30, 2024 will not be realized in the near term. Consequently, we have established a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets that are not more likely than not to be realized. In future periods, if we conclude we have future taxable income sufficient to realize the deferred tax assets, we may reduce or eliminate the valuation allowance. Provision for income taxes also includes U.S. state and local income taxes and foreign income taxes. We record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities or as reductions to deferred tax assets and adjust these balances when our judgement changes as a result of the evaluation of new information previously not available. Comparison of results of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023 (Unaudited) Revenue Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Subscription and related services $ 46,742 $ 37,887 $ 8,855 23 % Payment processing fees 27,060 24,253 2,807 12 % Network solutions 27,415 21,705 5,710 26 % Total revenue $ 101,217 $ 83,845 $ 17,372 21 % Subscription and related services. Our subscription and related services revenue from healthcare services organizations increased $8.9 million to $46.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as 34 Table of Contents compared to $37.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, primarily due to the new healthcare services clients as well as expansion of and cross-selling to existing healthcare services clients. Payment processing fees. Our revenue from patient payments processed through our solutions increased $2.8 million to $27.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $24.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, due to the addition of more healthcare services clients, which drove increases in patient visits and patient payments processed through our platform. Payment processing fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 were reduced by approximately $1.7 million related to the accelerated wind-down of a relationship with a clearinghouse client, which occurred in connection with the Change Healthcare cybersecurity incident. See Change Healthcare Cybersecurity Incident section above for additional information regarding the wind-down of this clearinghouse client relationship. Network solutions. Our revenue from life science and payer clients increased $5.7 million to $27.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $21.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, due to an increase engagement, education programs and deeper patient outreach among the existing programs. Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 15,723 $ 14,907 $ 816 5 % Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) increased $0.8 million to $15.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $14.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase resulted primarily from a $0.4 million increase in employee salary and benefits costs and a $0.2 million increase in employee stock compensation costs, as well as a $0.2 million increase in third-party costs driven by growth in revenue. Stock compensation incurred related to cost of revenue was $1.2 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Payment processing expense Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Payment processing expense $ 18,297 $ 16,090 $ 2,207 14 % Payment processing expense increased $2.2 million to $18.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $16.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase resulted primarily from the increase in payment processing fees revenue and patient payments processed through our solutions, each driven by an increase in patient visits over the prior year. Payment processing expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 was reduced by the accelerated wind-down of a relationship with a clearinghouse client, which occurred in connection with the Change Healthcare cybersecurity incident. See Change Healthcare Cybersecurity Incident section above for additional information regarding the wind-down of this clearinghouse client relationship. Sales and marketing Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 32,011 $ 37,413 $ (5,402) (14) % Sales and marketing expense decreased $5.4 million to $32.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $37.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to a $3.2 million decrease in employee salary and benefits costs, a $1.0 million decrease in travel and internal costs, a $0.6 million decrease in employee stock compensation costs and a $0.7 million decrease in outside services costs. 35 Table of Contents We note that the decline in expenses in the first quarter includes the impact of the full run-off of expenses from winding down our Medicare Advantage lead generation activities. Stock compensation incurred related to sales and marketing expense was $5.8 million and $6.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Research and development Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 28,881 $ 26,469 $ 2,412 9 % Research and development expense increased $2.4 million to $28.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $26.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase resulted primarily from a $1.7 million increase in employee salary and benefits costs and a $0.8 million increase in software costs, partially offset by a decrease in employee stock compensation costs. Stock compensation incurred related to research and development expense was $3.6 million and $3.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. General and administrative Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 19,052 $ 19,877 $ (825) (4) % General and administrative expense decreased $0.8 million to $19.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $19.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily related to a $1.0 million decrease in outside services costs and a $0.2 million decrease in employee salary and benefits costs, partially offset by a $0.3 million increase in employee stock compensation costs. Stock compensation incurred related to general and administrative expense was $6.2 million and $5.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Depreciation Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Depreciation $ 3,524 $ 4,504 $ (980) (22) % Depreciation expense decreased $1.0 million to $3.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $4.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower computer equipment depreciation. Amortization Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Amortization $ 3,149 $ 2,486 $ 663 27 % Amortization expense increased $0.7 million to $3.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 as compared to $2.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by amortization of intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2024 as well as higher amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs. 36 Table of Contents Other expense, net Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Other expense, net $ (31) $ (42) $ 11 (26) % Other expense, net was expense of less than $0.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and April 30, 2023. Other expense is comprised primarily of foreign exchange losses and gains. Interest income, net Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Interest income, net $ 239 $ 718 $ (479) (67) % Interest income, net was $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024, as compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower interest income earned from our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as higher interest expense on our finance leases and other financing obligations. Provision for income taxes Three months ended April 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Provision for income taxes $ (510) $ (306) $ (204) 67 % Provision for income taxes increased by $0.2 million to $0.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023. The increase in provision for income taxes relates primarily to an increase in Canadian and Indian income tax expense. Non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of our financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss before interest (income) expense, net, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and before stock-based compensation expense and other expense, net. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget, and to develop short and long-term operational plans. In particular, we believe that the exclusion of the amounts eliminated in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Our use of Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are as follows: Although depreciation and amortization expense are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect: (1) changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; (2) the potentially dilutive impact of non-cash stock-based compensation; (3) tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; or (4) interest income, net; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. 37 Table of Contents Because of these and other limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA along with other GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net loss, and our GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss for each of the periods indicated: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands, unaudited) 2024 2023 Net loss $ (19,722) $ (37,531) Interest income, net (239) (718) Provision for income taxes 510 306 Depreciation and amortization 6,673 6,990 Stock-based compensation expense 16,840 17,138 Other expense, net 31 42 Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,093 $ (13,773) We calculate free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities less capitalized internal-use software development costs and purchases of property and equipment. Additionally, free cash flow is a supplemental measure of our performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic investments, partnerships and acquisitions and strengthening our financial position. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow from net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, for each of the periods indicated: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands, unaudited) 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (721) $ (13,659) Less: Capitalized internal-use software (4,570) (4,732) Purchases of property and equipment (876) (1,347) Free cash flow $ (6,167) $ (19,738) Liquidity and capital resources As of April 30, 2024 and January 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $79.5 million and $87.5 million, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents consist of money market mutual funds and cash on deposit. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents along with cash generated in the normal course of business will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. In addition, we also have potential borrowing capacity under our credit agreement subject to certain restrictive covenants. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may be unable to raise the funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Termination of Silicon Valley Bank Facility In December 2023, we terminated the Third SVB Facility with SVB. We incurred termination fees of $0.6 million in connection with the termination of the Third SVB Facility. 38 Table of Contents Capital One facility In December 2023, we entered into a new 5-year $50 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility ("Capital One Credit Facility") maturing in December 2028, which includes a swingline sub-limit of at least $5.0 million and a letter of credit sub-limit of at least $5.0 million. The new Capital One Credit Facility was entered into with Capital One, N.A., acting as administrative agent and replaces our previous senior secured revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, which we terminated the same date. We believe the new Capital One Credit Facility will give us additional financial flexibility through fiscal 2028. The facility is available to us for working capital and general corporate purposes. The obligations under the Capital One Credit Facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, and by pledges of the equity of certain of our U.S. subsidiaries, in each case subject to customary exclusions. The Capital One Credit Facility includes financial covenants including, but not limited to requiring us to maintain minimum Consolidated EBITDA, minimum Liquidity, a minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and limiting the amount of cash and cash equivalents we hold outside Capital One, each as defined in the Credit Agreement. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents along with cash generated in the normal course of business, are sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Financing agreements In June 2023, we entered into a financing agreement to obtain financing for internal-use software and related software support. As of April 30, 2024, there was $2.8 million in outstanding principal and interest due under the agreement. The financing agreement requires us to pay $0.1 million per month for 36 months beginning August 2023. The effective interest rate on the agreement is 10.5% per annum. Liabilities issued as consideration for acquisition In October 2023, we entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the outstanding equity of ConnectOnCall for total consideration of $13.9 million, including liabilities with an acquisition-date fair value of $10.0 million. The liabilities include undiscounted payments of $10.9 million payable in seven quarterly installments from December 2023 through June 2025. As of April 30, 2024, the Company has recorded a liability of $7.4 million for the payments remaining through June 2025. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for each of the periods presented: Three months ended April 30, (in thousands, unaudited) 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (721) $ (13,659) Net cash used in investing activities (5,446) (6,079) Net cash used in financing activities (1,825) (7,178) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (7,993) $ (26,916) Operating activities The primary sources of cash from operating activities are cash received from our customers and interest earned on our money market mutual funds. The primary uses of cash for operating activities are for payroll, payments to suppliers, payments for operating leases, as well as cash paid for interest on our finance leases and other financings and cash paid for various taxes. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $0.7 million, as our cash paid to employees and suppliers exceeded our cash received from customers in connection with our normal operations. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $13.7 million, as our cash paid to employees and suppliers exceeded our cash received from customers in connection with our normal operations. The change in net cash used in operating activities was driven primarily by an increase in cash received from customers driven by higher revenues during the period ended April 30, 2024. 39 Table of Contents Investing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $5.4 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures, the majority of which consisted of $4.6 million of capitalized internal-use software costs, as well as $0.9 million of purchases of property and equipment, principally for software and computer equipment. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $6.1 million, principally resulting from capital expenditures, the majority of which consisted of $4.7 million of capitalized internal-use software costs, as well as $1.3 million of purchases of property and equipment, principally for software. Financing activities During the three months ended April 30, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $1.8 million, primarily consisting of $1.4 million used for principal payments on acquisition-related liabilities and $1.3 million used for principal payments on finance leases and financing arrangements, partially offset by $1.3 million in proceeds from our equity compensation plans. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $7.2 million, primarily consisting of $7.0 million used for treasury stock to satisfy tax withholdings on stock compensation awards and $1.4 million used for principal payments on finance leases, partially offset by $1.2 million in proceeds from our equity compensation plans. Material cash requirements Our material cash requirements relate to human capital, contractual purchase commitments, payments on deferred consideration liabilities, leases and financing arrangements. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, the Company recorded finance leases with total undiscounted payments of $7,413 through the fiscal year ended January 31, 2028. As of January 31, 2024, undiscounted payments for these leases were included in contractual purchase commitments as the leases had not yet commenced. During the three months ended April 30, 2024, there were no other significant changes in our material cash requirements as compared to the material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2024. See Liquidity and Capital Resources above for information regarding our termination of the Third SVB Facility and our entry into the Capital One Credit Facility, and their impact on our cash and cash equivalents, liquidity and sources of funds available for our material cash requirements. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet date, as well as reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our most significant estimates and judgments involve revenue recognition, the fair value of assets acquired in business combinations, capitalized internal-use software, income taxes, and valuation of our stock-based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2024 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2024. 40 Table of Contents