Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in Risk Factors, and Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Pixelworks is a leading provider of high-performance and power-efficient visual processing semiconductor and software solutions that enable consistently high-quality and authentic viewing experiences in a wide variety of applications. We define our primary target markets as Mobile (smartphone and tablet), Home & Enterprise (projectors, personal video recorders ("PVR"), and over-the-air ("OTA") streaming devices), and Cinema (creation, remastering, and delivery of digital video content). Previously we classified our primary target markets as Mobile, Projector, Video Delivery and Cinema, but have since aggregated the Projector and Video Delivery categories into one market called "Home & Enterprise". Pixelworks has been a pioneer in visual processing technology for over 20 years. We were one of the first companies to commercially launch a video System on Chip ("SoC") capable of deinterlacing 1080i HDTV signals and one of the first companies with a commercial dual-channel 1080i deinterlacer integrated circuit. We launched one of the industrys first single-chip SoCs for digital projection. We were the first company to integrate motion estimation / motion compensation technology ("MEMC") as a mobile-optimized solution for smartphones. In 2019, we introduced our Hollywood award-winning TrueCut MotionTM video platform, the industrys first motion grading technology that allows fine tuning of motion appearance in cinematic content. Our core visual processing technology intelligently processes digital images and video from a variety of sources and optimizes the content for a superior viewing experience. Rapid growth in video and gaming consumption, combined with the move towards bright, high resolution, high frame rate and high refresh rate displays, especially in mobile, is increasing the demand for our solutions. Our technologies can be applied across a wide range of applications: cinema theaters, low-power mobile tablets, smartphones, streaming devices, and digital projectors for the home, school, or the workplace. Our products are designed and optimized for power, cost, bandwidth, viewer experience, and overall system performance, according to the requirements of the specific application. On occasion, we have also licensed our technology. During 2021, we engaged in a strategic plan to re-align our Mobile and Home & Enterprise businesses to improve their focus on their Asia-centered customers and employee stakeholders (the Strategic Plan). One of our Chinese subsidiaries, Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (or "PWSH"), now operates these businesses as a full profit-and-loss center underneath Pixelworks. In connection with this strategic plan, the Company and PWSH closed three separate financing transactions in 2021 and 2022, which are further described in "Note 13: Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest and Equity Interest of PWSH Sold to Employees" and "Note 1: Non-Controlling Interest". PWSH has a branch office located in Shenzhen, China (Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shenzhen Branch Office No. 1), which is primarily for sales and customer support for PWSH, and a subsidiary located in Hong Kong (Pixelworks Hong Kong Limited), which has no employees and is used for distribution of PWSH products. Pixelworks has an additional subsidiary in China (Frame Shadow Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (formerly called Mucheng Huai Management Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd)) which is a research and development center for our TrueCut business. This subsidiary does not operate under PWSH, but rather is owned by Pixelworks through our Oregon limited liability company, Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology Company, LLC. More than a majority of our operations are in China, but our executive officers and all of our directors but one are located in the United States (he resides in Singapore). We are neither a PRC operating company nor do we conduct our operations in China through the use of variable interest entities. Our auditor is Grant Thornton LLP, with headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. The Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, and related regulations, therefore do not apply to our Company. As part of the Strategic Plan we intended to qualify PWSH to file an application for an initial public offering on the Shanghai Stock Exchanges Science Technology Innovation Board, known as the STAR Market (such initial public offering on the STAR Market, the Listing, and such application, an "IPO application"), a lengthy process that involves several reviews by various government agencies of China, such as the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The market conditions and regulatory requirements continue to not be conducive to a successful listing by PWSH. We continue to believe that the Listing could have many benefits, including improved access to new capital markets and the funding of PWSHs growth worldwide, and thus remain prepared to re-engage with the various government agencies of China 25 Table of Contents and our advisors involved in a Listing once those conditions and requirements sufficiently improve. There is no guarantee that PWSH will be approved for a Listing at any point in the future. The Listing of PWSH would not change the status of PXLW as a U.S. public company. Pixelworks continues to work with Morgan Stanley as financial advisor to assist with reviewing potential alternative strategic options specific to inbound interest in the Pixelworks Shanghai subsidiary. As of March 31, 2025, we had an intellectual property portfolio of 255 patents related to the visual display of digital image data. We focus our research and development efforts on developing video algorithms that improve quality, and architectures that reduce system power, cost, bandwidth and increase overall system performance and device functionality. We seek to expand our technology portfolio through internal development and co-development with business partners, and we continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and other ways to leverage our technology into other high-value markets. Pixelworks was founded in 1997 and is incorporated under the laws of the state of Oregon. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonality related to the markets we serve and the location of our customers. We have typically experienced higher revenue from the digital projector component of the Home & Enterprise market in the third quarter, and lower revenue in the first quarter, as our Japanese customers reduce inventories in anticipation of their March 31 fiscal year end. We have typically experienced higher revenue from the mobile market in the fourth quarter, and lower revenue in the first quarter, as mobile phone OEMs ramp production in advance of Chinese New Year. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue, net Net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Revenue, net $ 7,094 $ 16,054 $ (8,960) (56) % Net revenue decreased $9.0 million, or 56%, in the first quarter of 2025 compared to the first quarter of 2024. Revenue recorded in the first three months of 2025 consisted of $7.1 million in revenue from the sale of integrated circuit ("IC") products and negligible revenue related to engineering services, license revenue and other. Revenue recorded in the first three months of 2024 consisted of $15.4 million in revenue from the sale of IC products and $0.7 million in revenue related to engineering services, license revenue and other. The decrease in IC revenue in the first quarter of 2025 compared to the first quarter of 2024 is due to the following factors: Sales into the Mobile market decreased approximately $7.9 million or 86% primarily due to decreased units sold associated with a delayed transition to our latest generation mobile products. Sales into the Home & Enterprise market decreased approximately $0.4 million or 7%. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue and gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 % of revenue 2024 % of revenue Direct product costs and related overhead 1 $ 3,582 50 % $ 7,922 49 % Restructuring 75 1 0 Inventory charges 2 (25) 0 0 Stock-based compensation 10 0 18 0 Total cost of revenue $ 3,642 51 % $ 7,940 49 % Gross profit $ 3,452 49 % $ 8,114 51 % 1Includes purchased materials, assembly, test, labor, employee benefits and royalties. 2Includes charges to reduce inventory to lower of cost or market and a benefit for sales of previously written down inventory. Gross profit margin decreased to 49% in the first three months of 2025 compared to 51% in the first three months of 2024, primarily due to the following factors: Decrease in higher margin revenue related to engineering services, license revenue and other. Increase in restructuring expense in the first quarter of 2025 compared to the first three months of 2024. Pixelworks gross profit margin is subject to variability based on changes in revenue levels, product mix, average selling prices, startup costs, amortization related to acquired intangible assets, and the timing and execution of manufacturing ramps as well as other factors. 27 Table of Contents Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation and related costs for personnel, development-related expenses, including non-recurring engineering expenses and fees for outside services, depreciation and amortization, expensed equipment, facilities and information technology expense allocations and travel and related expenses. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 6,523 $ 8,073 $ (1,550) (19) % Research and development expense decreased $1.6 million, or 19% in the first three months of 2025 compared to the first three months of 2024 due to the following factors: Compensation expense decreased $1.1 million primarily due to decreased headcount associated with our June 2024 restructuring plan. Non-recurring engineering expense decreased by $0.2 million due to the timing of development activities. A $0.2 million overall decrease across multiple expense categories, as we continue to implement cost control measures. Stock based compensation expense decreased $0.1 million primarily due to the change in our stock price. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative expense includes compensation and related costs for personnel, sales commissions, facilities and information technology expense allocations, travel, outside services and other general expenses incurred in our sales, marketing, customer support, management, legal and other professional and administrative support functions. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 4,632 $ 5,534 $ (902) (16) % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $0.9 million, or 16% in the first three months of 2025 compared to the first three months of 2024 due to the following factors: Compensation expense decreased $0.5 million primarily due to decreased headcount associated with our June 2024 restructuring plan. Stock based compensation expense decreased $0.2 million primarily due to the change in our stock price. Professional fees decreased $0.2 million primarily due to a decrease in fees incurred related to our Strategic Plan with our subsidiary, PWSH. 28 Table of Contents Restructurings In February 2025, we executed a restructuring plan to make the operation of the Company more efficient (the "2025 Plan"). The 2025 Plan included an approximately 6% reduction in workforce, primarily in the areas of operations, research and development, and marketing. In June 2024, we executed a restructuring plan to make the operation of the Company more efficient (the "2024 Plan"). The 2024 Plan included an approximately 16% reduction in workforce, primarily in the areas of operations, research and development, sales, marketing and administration. Restructuring expense for the three month periods ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Employee severance and benefits $ 468 $ Total restructuring expense $ 468 $ Included in cost of revenue $ 75 $ Included in operating expenses 393 During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recorded $0.5 million in restructuring expense related to the 2025 Plan. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we did not record any restructuring expense. We do not expect to incur additional restructuring charges related to the 2025 Plan. Provision for income taxes The provision for income taxes during the 2025 and 2024 periods is primarily comprised of current and deferred tax expense in profitable cost-plus foreign jurisdictions, accruals for tax contingencies in foreign jurisdictions and benefits for the reversal of previously recorded foreign tax contingencies due to the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitation. We recorded a benefit for the reversal of previously recorded foreign tax contingencies of $0.3 million during the first three months of 2025 and a negligible benefit during the first three months of 2024. 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents Total cash and cash equivalents decreased $5.1 million to $18.5 million at March 31, 2025 from $23.6 million at December 31, 2024. The net decrease during the first three months of 2025 was primarily the result of $6.7 million used in operating activities, partially offset by $1.3 million in net proceeds from our registered direct offering and $0.5 million in net proceeds from our at the market equity offering. As of March 31, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents balance consisted of $14.4 million in cash, $4.0 million held in U.S. dollar denominated certificates of deposit and $0.1 million in cash equivalents held in U.S. dollar denominated money market funds. Although we did not hold short- or long-term investments as of March 31, 2025, our investment policy requires that our portfolio maintain a weighted average maturity of less than 12 months. Additionally, no maturities can extend beyond 24 months and concentrations with individual securities are limited. At the time of purchase, the short-term credit rating must be rated at least A-2 / P-2 / F-2 by at least two Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations ("NRSRO") and securities of issuers with a long-term credit rating must be rated at least A or A3 by at least two NRSRO. Our investment policy is reviewed at least annually by our Audit Committee. Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable, net decreased to $5.4 million as of March 31, 2025 from $5.8 million as of December 31, 2024. The average number of days sales outstanding increased to 68 days as of March 31, 2025 from 48 days as of December 31, 2024. The decrease in accounts receivable and increase in days sales outstanding were due to a decrease in revenue in the first quarter of 2025 compared to the fourth quarter of 2024 as well as the timing of revenue within the quarter. Inventories Inventories were $5.0 million as of March 31, 2025 compared to $4.2 million at December 31, 2024. Inventory turnover decreased to 3.1 as of March 31, 2025 from 5.1 as of December 31, 2024 primarily due to lower cost of goods sold as a result of lower revenue during the first quarter of 2025 compared to the fourth quarter of 2024. Inventory turnover is calculated based on annualized quarterly operating results and average inventory balances during the quarter. Capital resources At the Market Offering On November 14, 2024, we entered into a sales agreement (the Sales Agreement) with Roth Capital Partners, LLC (Roth), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of the Companys common stock, par value $0.001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $10.0 million, from time to time, through an at the market equity offering program under which Roth will act as sales agent (the "2024 ATM Program"). Under the Sales Agreement, we will set the parameters for the sale of shares, including the number of shares to be issued, the time period during which sales are requested to be made, limitations on the number of shares that may be sold in any one trading day and any minimum price below which sales may not be made. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Sales Agreement, Roth may sell the shares by methods deemed to be an at the market offering as defined in Rule 415(a)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including sales made through Nasdaq or on any other existing trading market for our common stock. We pay Roth a commission equal to two and a half percent (2.5%) of the gross sales proceeds of any common stock sold through Roth under the Sales Agreement. The Sales Agreement may be terminated by us upon prior notice to Roth or by Roth upon prior notice to us, or at any time under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the occurrence of a material adverse change in the Company. We are not obligated to sell any shares under the Sales Agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we sold an aggregate of 709,985 shares of our common stock under the 2024 ATM Program, resulting in aggregate net proceeds to us of approximately $0.5 million and gross proceeds of approximately $0.6 million and paid Roth negligible commissions and fees, and other expenses of $0.1 million. Registered Direct Offering On March 24, 2025, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with several purchasers pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell, in a registered direct offering, an aggregate of 1,970,106 shares of our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, at a purchase price of $0.736 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.3 million. 30 Table of Contents Capital Increase Agreements We have entered into a Capital Increase Agreement pursuant to which PWSH, one of our Chinese subsidiaries, received net proceeds from the sale of its securities pursuant thereto in an amount of RMB 279.7 million ($42.3 million USD). Additional information is provided in "Note 13: Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest and Equity Interest of PWSH Sold to Employees", which is incorporated by reference into this section. We have entered into a Capital Increase Agreement pursuant to which PWSH, one of our Chinese subsidiaries, received net proceeds from the sale of its securities pursuant thereto in an amount of 99.0 million RMB ($14.6 million USD). Additional information is provided in "Note 14: Non-Controlling Interest", which is incorporated by reference into this section. Equity Transfer Agreement We have entered into an Equity Transfer Agreement pursuant to which we received net proceeds of $10.7 million in exchange for a 2.73% equity interest in PWSH. Additional information is provided in "Note 14: Non-Controlling Interest", which is incorporated by reference into this section. Liquidity As of March 31, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents balance of $18.5 million was highly liquid. We anticipate that our existing working capital will be adequate to fund our operating, investing and financing needs for at least the next twelve months. If our cash is insufficient to meet our needs, including in the longer term, we may seek to raise capital by pursuing financing arrangements, including the issuance of debt or equity securities, or reducing expenditures, or both, to meet our cash requirements. There is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to raise additional capital or reduce discretionary spending to provide the required liquidity which, in turn, may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we evaluate acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that complement our business. Any transactions, if consummated, may consume a material portion of our working capital or require the issuance of equity securities that may result in dilution to existing shareholders. Our ability to generate cash from operations is also subject to substantial risks described in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors". If any of these risks occur, we may be unable to generate or sustain positive cash flow from operating activities. We would then be required to use existing cash and cash equivalents to support our working capital and other cash requirements. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, acquisitions or other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through debt financing, equity financing or from other sources. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur interest expense. We can provide no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or, if available, that we would be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us. Other than as set forth above, there were no material changes to our liquidity and capital resources during the three month period ended March 31, 2025 from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as amended. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, property and equipment, impairment of long-lived assets, valuation of goodwill, valuation of share-based payments, income taxes, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to these estimates, or the policies related to them during the three months ended March 31, 2025. For a full discussion of these estimates and policies, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as amended.