Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in Risk Factors, and Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview Pixelworks is a leading provider of high-performance and power-efficient visual processing semiconductor and software solutions that enable consistently high-quality and authentic viewing experiences in a wide variety of applications. We define our primary target markets as Mobile (smartphone and tablet), Home & Enterprise (projectors, personal video recorders ("PVR"), and over-the-air ("OTA") streaming devices), and Cinema (creation, remastering, and delivery of digital video content). Previously we classified our primary target markets as Mobile, Projector, Video Delivery and Cinema, but have since aggregated the Projector and Video Delivery categories into one called "Home & Enterprise". Pixelworks has been a pioneer in visual processing technology for over 20 years. We were one of the first companies to commercially launch a video System on Chip ("SoC") capable of deinterlacing 1080i HDTV signals and one of the first companies with a commercial dual-channel 1080i deinterlacer integrated circuit. We launched one of the industrys first single-chip SoCs for digital projection. We were the first company to integrate motion estimation / motion compensation technology ("MEMC") as a mobile-optimized solution for smartphones. In 2019, we introduced our Hollywood award-winning TrueCut MotionTM video platform, the industrys first motion grading technology that allows fine tuning of motion appearance in cinematic content. As of March 31, 2024, we had an intellectual property portfolio of 278 patents related to the visual display of digital image data. We focus our research and development efforts on developing video algorithms that improve quality, and architectures that reduce system power, cost, bandwidth and increase overall system performance and device functionality. We seek to expand our technology portfolio through internal development and co-development with business partners, and we continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and other ways to leverage our technology into other high-value markets. Our core visual processing technology intelligently processes digital images and video from a variety of sources and optimizes the content for a superior viewing experience. Rapid growth in video and gaming consumption, combined with the move towards bright, high resolution, high frame rate and high refresh rate displays, especially in mobile, is increasing the demand for our solutions. Our technologies can be applied across a wide range of applications: cinema theaters, low-power mobile tablets, smartphones, streaming devices, and digital projectors for the home, school, or the workplace. Our products are designed and optimized for power, cost, bandwidth, viewer experience, and overall system performance, according to the requirements of the specific application. On occasion, we have also licensed our technology. During 2021, we engaged in a strategic plan to re-align our Mobile and Home & Enterprise businesses to improve their focus on their Asia-centered customers and employee stakeholders. One of our Chinese subsidiaries, Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (or "PWSH"), now operates these businesses as a full profit-and-loss center underneath Pixelworks. In connection with this strategic plan, the Company and PWSH closed three separate financing transactions in 2021 and 2022, which are further described in "Note 13: Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest and Equity Interest of PWSH Sold to Employees" and "Note 14: Non-Controlling Interest". PWSH has a branch office located in Shenzhen, China (Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shenzhen Branch Office No. 1), which is primarily for sales and customer support for PWSH, and a subsidiary located in Hong Kong (Pixelworks Hong Kong Limited), which has no employees and is used for distribution of PWSH products. Pixelworks has an additional subsidiary in China (Frame Shadow Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (formerly called Mucheng Huai Management Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd)) which is a research and development center for our TrueCut business. This subsidiary does not operate under PWSH, but rather is owned by Pixelworks through our Oregon limited liability company, Pixelworks Semiconductor Technology Company, LLC. 24 Table of Contents We continue to prepare PWSH to file an application for an initial public offering of PWSH shares on the Shanghai Stock Exchanges Science Technology Innovation Board, known as the STAR Market (the Listing) once market conditions in China are supportive. We believe that the Listing will have many benefits, including improved access to new capital markets and the funding of PWSHs growth worldwide. The process of going public on the STAR Market is lengthy and includes several periods of review by various government agencies of the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), such as the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The CSRC and the SSE have recently tightened the standards for the STAR Market and are currently advising companies that are not yet profitable under China GAAP standards against filing an IPO application in the present environment. The Company believes this is in large part due to the current economic conditions in China and the recent performance of companies already listed on the STAR Market that were not profitable at the time of their IPO. PWSH is not currently profitable under China GAAP standards. There is no guarantee that PWSH will be approved for a Listing at any point in the future. The listing of PWSH on the STAR Market will not change the status of PXLW as a U.S. public company. More than a majority of our operations are in China, but our executive officers and all of our directors but one are located in the United States (and he resides in Singapore). We are neither a PRC operating company nor do we conduct our operations in China through the use of variable interest entities. Our auditor is Grant Thornton LLP, with headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. The Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act 2023, and related regulations, therefore do not apply to our Company. Pixelworks was founded in 1997 and is incorporated under the laws of the state of Oregon. On August 2, 2017, we acquired ViXS Systems, Inc., a corporation organized in Canada ("ViXS"). 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue, net Net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenue, net $ 16,054 $ 9,966 $ 6,088 61 % Net revenue increased $6.1 million, or 61%, in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the first quarter of 2023. Revenue recorded in the first three months of 2024 consisted of $15.4 million in revenue from the sale of integrated circuit ("IC") products and $0.7 million in revenue related to engineering services, license revenue and other. Revenue recorded in the first three months of 2023 consisted of $9.7 million in revenue from the sale of IC products and $0.3 million in revenue related to engineering services, license revenue and other. The increase in IC revenue in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the first quarter of 2023 is due to the following partially offsetting factors: Sales into the Mobile market increased approximately $6.1 million or 200% due primarily to increased units sold. Sales into the Home & Enterprise market decreased approximately $0.4 million or 6%, primarily due to a decrease in units sold, partially offset by an increase in average selling price ("ASP") on a product sold into the projector market. Cost of revenue and gross profit Cost of revenue and gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 % of revenue 2023 % of revenue Direct product costs and related overhead 1 $ 7,922 49 % $ 5,575 56 % Stock-based compensation 18 0 24 0 Total cost of revenue $ 7,940 49 % $ 5,599 56 % Gross profit $ 8,114 51 % $ 4,367 44 % 1Includes purchased materials, assembly, test, labor, employee benefits and royalties. Gross profit margin increased to 51% in the first quarter of 2024 compared to 44% in the first quarter of 2023, primarily due to increased ASPs on IC products sold into the Home & Enterprise market as well as decreased costs on Mobile products. Pixelworks gross profit margin is subject to variability based on changes in revenue levels, product mix, average selling prices, startup costs, amortization related to acquired intangible assets, and the timing and execution of manufacturing ramps as well as other factors. 26 Table of Contents Research and development Research and development expense includes compensation and related costs for personnel, development-related expenses, including non-recurring engineering expenses and fees for outside services, depreciation and amortization, expensed equipment, facilities and information technology expense allocations and travel and related expenses. Co-development agreement During the third quarter of 2021, we entered into a best efforts co-development agreement with a customer to defray a portion of the research and development expenses we expect to incur in connection with our development of an integrated circuit product. We expect our development costs to exceed the amounts received from the customer, and although we expect to sell units of the product to the customer, there is no commitment or agreement from the customer for such sales at this time. Additionally, we retain ownership of any modifications or improvements to our pre-existing intellectual property and may use such improvements in products sold to other customers. Under the co-development agreement, $5.8 million was payable by the customer within 60 days of the date of the agreement and three additional payments of $2.5 million, $1.9 million and $1.3 million were each payable upon completion of certain development milestones. As amounts became due and payable, they were offset against research and development expense on a pro rata basis. We did not recognize any offsets to research and development expense during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. All milestones under the co-development agreement were completed as of December 31, 2023. Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 8,073 $ 8,666 $ (593) (7) % Research and development expense decreased $0.6 million, or 7% in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the first quarter of 2023 due to the following factors: Non-recurring engineering expense decreased $0.8 million due to the timing of development activities. Compensation expense increased $0.2 million primarily due to increased headcount and annual merit salary increases. 27 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative expense includes compensation and related costs for personnel, sales commissions, facilities and information technology expense allocations, travel, outside services and other general expenses incurred in our sales, marketing, customer support, management, legal and other professional and administrative support functions. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, was as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 5,534 $ 6,072 $ (538) (9) % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $0.5 million, or 9% in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the first quarter of 2023 due to the following factors: Professional fees decreased $0.3 million primarily due to a decrease in fees incurred related to our strategic plan with our subsidiary, PWSH. Foreign currency loss of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2023 compared to a foreign currency gain of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2024, for an overall decrease in foreign currency gains and losses of $0.4 million primarily due to weakening in the CNY compared to USD. Compensation expense increased $0.2 million primarily due to increased headcount and annual merit salary increases. Provision for income taxes The provision for income taxes during the 2024 and 2023 periods is primarily comprised of current and deferred tax expense in profitable cost-plus foreign jurisdictions, accruals for tax contingencies in foreign jurisdictions and benefits for the reversal of previously recorded foreign tax contingencies due to the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitation. We recorded a negligible benefit for the reversal of previously recorded foreign tax contingencies during the first three months of 2024 and 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents Total cash and cash equivalents decreased $1.3 million to $46.2 million at March 31, 2024 from $47.5 million at December 31, 2023. The net decrease during the first three months of 2024 was the result of $0.8 million used in operating activities, $0.4 million used for purchases of property and equipment and $0.2 million used for payments on other asset financings. These decreases were partially offset by $0.1 million in proceeds from the issuances of common stock under our employee equity incentive plans. As of March 31, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents balance consisted of $32.0 million in cash, $13.0 million held in U.S. dollar denominated certificates of deposit and $1.2 million in cash equivalents held in U.S. dollar denominated money market funds. Although we did not hold short- or long-term investments as of March 31, 2024, our investment policy requires that our portfolio maintain a weighted average maturity of less than 12 months. Additionally, no maturities can extend beyond 24 months and concentrations with individual securities are limited. At the time of purchase, the short-term credit rating must be rated at least A-2 / P-2 / F-2 by at least two Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations ("NRSRO") and securities of issuers with a long-term credit rating must be rated at least A or A3 by at least two NRSRO. Our investment policy is reviewed at least annually by our Audit Committee. Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable, net decreased to $7.4 million as of March 31, 2024 from $10.1 million as of December 31, 2023. The average number of days sales outstanding decreased to 41 days as of March 31, 2024 from 56 days as of December 31, 2023. The decrease in accounts receivable and days sales outstanding was due to normal fluctuations in the timing of sales and customer receipts within the first quarter of 2024, and the fourth quarter of 2023 as well as a decrease in revenue in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the fourth quarter of 2023. 28 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories were $3.4 million as of March 31, 2024 compared to $4.0 million at December 31, 2023. Inventory turnover was 8.5 as of March 31, 2024 and 8.6 as of December 31, 2023. Inventory turnover is calculated based on annualized quarterly operating results and average inventory balances during the quarter. Capital resources At the Market Offering On June 5, 2020, we entered into a sales agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.001 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $25.0 million, from time to time, through an "at the market" equity offering program under which Cowen will act as sales agent. Under the Sales Agreement, Cowen may sell the shares by methods deemed to be an "at the market offering" as defined in Rule 415(a)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including sales made by means of ordinary brokers transactions on the Nasdaq Global Market or on any other existing trading market for the common stock or otherwise at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, in block transactions, or as otherwise directed by us. We pay Cowen a commission equal to three percent (3.0%) of the gross sales proceeds of any common stock sold through Cowen under the Sales Agreement. The Sales Agreement may be terminated by us upon prior notice to Cowen or by Cowen upon prior notice to us, or at any time under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the occurrence of a material adverse change in the Company. We are not obligated to sell any shares under the Sales Agreement. There was no activity under this at the market offering during the three months ended March 31, 2024 or March 31, 2023. Capital Increase Agreements We have entered into a Capital Increase Agreement pursuant to which PWSH, one of our Chinese subsidiaries, received net proceeds from the sale of its securities pursuant thereto in an amount of RMB 279.7 million ($42.3 million USD). Additional information is provided in "Note 13: Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest and Equity Interest of PWSH Sold to Employees", which is incorporated by reference into this section. We have entered into a Capital Increase Agreement pursuant to which PWSH, one of our Chinese subsidiaries, received net proceeds from the sale of its securities pursuant thereto in an amount of 99.0 million RMB ($14.6 million USD). Additional information is provided in "Note 14: Non-Controlling Interest", which is incorporated by reference into this section. Equity Transfer Agreement We have entered into an Equity Transfer Agreement pursuant to which we received net proceeds of $10.7 million in exchange for a 2.73% equity interest in PWSH. Additional information is provided in "Note 14: Non-Controlling Interest", which is incorporated by reference into this section. 29 Table of Contents Liquidity As of March 31, 2024, our cash and cash equivalents balance of $46.2 million was highly liquid. We anticipate that our existing working capital will be adequate to fund our operating, investing and financing needs for the next twelve months and beyond. We may pursue financing arrangements including the issuance of debt or equity securities or reduce expenditures, or both, to meet our cash requirements, including in the longer term. There is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to raise additional capital or reduce discretionary spending to provide the required liquidity which, in turn, may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we evaluate acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that complement our business. Any transactions, if consummated, may consume a material portion of our working capital or require the issuance of equity securities that may result in dilution to existing shareholders. Our ability to generate cash from operations is also subject to substantial risks described in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors". If any of these risks occur, we may be unable to generate or sustain positive cash flow from operating activities. We would then be required to use existing cash and cash equivalents to support our working capital and other cash requirements. If additional funds are required to support our working capital requirements, acquisitions or other purposes, we may seek to raise funds through debt financing, equity financing or from other sources. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility and would also require us to incur interest expense. We can provide no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or, if available, that we would be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us. Other than as set forth above, there were no material changes to our liquidity and capital resources during the three month period ended March 31, 2024 from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2024. 30 Table of Contents