ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, our, and the Company are intended to mean the business and operations of PLAYSTUDIOS, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances, except as required by law. Overview We are a developer and publisher of free-to-play casual games for mobile and social platforms. Each of our legacy social casino games and our Tetris-branded mobile game incorporate our unique playAWARDS loyalty program. Over our eleven-year history, we developed a portfolio of free-to-play social casino games that are considered to be among the most innovative and unique in the genre. We recently acquired Brainium, a developer and publisher of free-to-play casual games with industry leading user retention and engagement. Our games include the award-winning POP! Slots , myVEGAS Slots , my KONAMI Slots, myVEGAS Blackjack, myVEGAS Bingo, Tetris, Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, Sudoku, and Mahjong. Our games are based on original content as well as third-party licensed brands and are downloadable and playable for free on multiple social and mobile-based platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, Amazon Appstore, and Facebook. Each of our legacy social casino games and our Tetris-branded mobile game is powered by our proprietary playAWARDS program and incorporates loyalty points that are earned by players as they engage with our games. For the year ended December 31, 2022, these loyalty points could have been exchanged for real-world rewards from 96 awards partners representing more than 210 hospitality, entertainment, and leisure brands across 105 countries and six continents. The rewards are provided by our collection of awards partners, with the majority of whom provide their rewards at no cost to us, in exchange for product integration, marketing support, and participation in our loyalty program. The program is enabled by our playAWARDS platform which consists of a robust suite of tools that enable our awards partners to manage their rewards in real time, measure the value of our players engagement, and gain insight into the effectiveness and value they derive from the program. Through our self-service platform, awards partners can launch new rewards, make changes to existing rewards, and in real time see how players are engaging with their brands. The platform tools also provide awards partners the ability to measure the off-line value our players generate as consumers and patrons of their real-world establishments. PLAYSTUDIOS' playAWARDS platform embodies all of the features, tools, and capabilities needed to deliver loyalty programs tailored for the games industry. Our consumer-facing brand for our loyalty program is myVIP. The myVIP program is an aspirational benefits framework, with in-game mechanics and rewards features, along with a player development and hosting program. The program dynamically ranks and assigns players to tiers based on their accumulation of tier points, which are a proxy for their overall engagement with our games. The tier points are separate from and are not interchangeable with the loyalty points earned in the playAWARDS program. Qualified players are provided access to enhanced benefits that increase with each tier. Higher tiers provide access to a VIP player portal where players can view and purchase special chip bundles, redeem loyalty points for a curated set of rewards, and communicate directly with a dedicated personal host. The VIP player portal, concierge, and host programs, enhance the in-game and real-world reward experience with both in-game and in-person, invitation-only special events. We believe that the myVIP program drives increased player engagement and retention, and therefore extends each game's life-cycle and revenue potential. We have primarily generated our revenue from the sale of in-game virtual currency, which players can choose to purchase at any time to enhance their playing experience. Once purchased, our virtual currency cannot be withdrawn from the game, transferred from one game to another or from one player to another, or be redeemed for monetary value. Players who install our games receive free virtual currency upon the initial launch of the game, and they may also collect virtual currency free of charge at periodic intervals or through targeted marketing promotions. Players may exhaust the free virtual currency 53 and may choose to purchase additional virtual currency. Additionally, players can send free gifts of virtual currency to their friends on Facebook. Our revenue from virtual currency has been generated world-wide, but is largely concentrated in North America. We also generate revenue from in-game advertising. Advertisements can be in the form of an impression, click-throughs, banner ads, or offers, where players are rewarded with virtual currency or loyalty points for watching a short video. While we historically have derived most of our revenue from the sale of in-game virtual currency, we introduced in-game advertising as a limited pilot program and expanded it throughout 2021 and 2022. In addition, our Tetris-branded mobile game and our Brainium games generate most of their revenue through in-game advertising. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and related containment and mitigation efforts, including social distancing, shelter-in-place, quarantine, and similar policies, practices, and governmental orders, have resulted in widespread disruption in global economies, productivity, and financial markets and have materially altered our day-to-day business operations. We have followed guidance by the U.S., Israel, Hong Kong, and other applicable foreign and local governments to protect our employees and operations during the pandemic. We cannot predict potential future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or other future health epidemics or contagious disease outbreaks on our business or operations, but we will continue to actively monitor the related issues and may take further precautionary actions that alter our business operations, including as may be required by federal, state, local, or foreign authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, players, partners, and stockholders. In addition to the potential direct impacts to our business, the global economy has been, and is likely to continue to be, significantly weakened as a result of the actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and future government intervention remains uncertain. A weakened global economy may impact our players and their purchasing decisions within our games, in particular as a result of the limitations associated with redeeming real-world rewards due to government-mandated or other restrictions on travel and other activities and limitations on our players discretionary spending, consumer activity during the pandemic and its impact on advertising investments, and the ability of our business partners, including our awards partners, to navigate this complex social, health, and economic environment, any of which could result in disruption to our business and results of our operations. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot accurately be predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the virus, the existence of any additional waves of the COVID-19 pandemic and variants thereof, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, progress towards widespread rapid testing, effective treatment alternatives, and the success and timing of vaccination efforts, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, players, and business partners. We have observed labor shortages, increasing competition for talent, and increasing employee attrition. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business may be harmed. See Risk Factors for more information related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance There are a number of factors that affect the performance of our business, and the comparability of our results from period to period, including: Third-Party Platform Agreements Historically we derived substantially all of our revenue from in-game purchases of virtual currency that are processed by platform providers such as the Apple App Store, Google Store, Amazon Appstore, and on Facebook. The platform providers charge us a transaction fee to process payments from our players for their purchase of in-game virtual currency. These platform fees are generally set at 30% of the in-game purchase. Each platform provider has broad discretion to set its platform fees and to change and interpret its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers in its sole discretion, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. Player Acquisition Establishing and maintaining a loyal network of players and paying players is vital for our success. As such, we spend a significant amount on advertising and other forms of player acquisition, such as traditional marketing and advertising, email and push notifications, and cross promoting between our games in order to grow our player base. These expenditures are generally related to new content launches, game enhancements, and ongoing programs to drive new player acquisition and the reactivation of lapsed player engagement. Our player acquisition strategy is centered on a payback period methodology, and we strive to optimize spend between the acquisition of new players and the reactivation of inactive players. 54 Player Monetization Our revenue to date has been primarily driven through the sale of virtual currency. Paying players purchase virtual currency in our games because of the perceived value, which is dependent on the relative ease of obtaining equivalent virtual currency by simply playing our game. The perceived value of our virtual currency can be impacted by various actions that we take in our games including offering discounts for virtual currency or giving away virtual currency in promotions. Managing game economies is difficult and relies on our assumptions and judgment. If we fail to manage our virtual economies properly or fail to promptly and successfully respond to any such disruption, our reputation may suffer and our players may be less likely to play our games and to purchase virtual currency from us in the future, which would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer. Investment in Game Development In order to maintain interest from existing players and add new players and achieve our desired revenue growth, we must continually improve the content, offers, and features in our existing games and the release of new games. As a result, we invest a significant amount of our technological and creative resources to ensure that we support an appropriate cadence of innovative content that our players will find appealing. These expenditures generally occur in advance of the release of new content or the launch of a new game, and the resulting revenue may not exceed the development costs, or the game or feature may be abandoned in its entirety. Investment in our playAWARDS and myVIP programs In order to drive player engagement and retention we invest a significant amount of resources to enhance the playAWARDS and myVIP programs. We continually evaluate these programs through an iterative feedback process with our players and awards partners and update them so that both our players and awards partners are able to optimize their personalized experience. As a result, we continuously incur expenses to enhance and update these programs. However, the results may not generate revenue and the enhancements may require additional significant modifications or be abandoned in their entirety. Real-World Rewards We currently offer real-world rewards relating to, among other things, dining, live entertainment shows, and hotel rooms, and we plan to continue to expand and diversify our rewards loyalty program in order to maintain and enhance the perceived value offering to our players. Our players willingness to make in-game purchases is directly impacted by our ability to provide desirable rewards. The real-world rewards we offer to our players are provided at no cost to us by our awards partners, and there is no obligation for us to pay or otherwise compensate either our awards partners or players for any player redemptions under our awards partner agreements. Key Performance Indicators and Non-GAAP Measures We manage our business by regularly reviewing several key operating metrics to track historical performance, identify trends in player activity, and set strategic goals for the future. Our key performance metrics are impacted by several factors that could cause them to fluctuate on a quarterly basis, such as platform providers policies, seasonality, player connectivity, and the addition of new content to games. We believe these measures are useful to investors for the same reasons. In addition, we also present certain non-GAAP performance measures. These performance measures are presented as supplemental disclosure and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for the consolidated financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP. The non-GAAP measures presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the respective related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The key performance indicators and non-GAAP measures presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies and are not a substitute for financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Key Performance Indicators Daily Active Users (DAU) Daily Active Users ("DAU") is defined as the number of individuals who played a game on a particular day. We track DAU by the player ID, which is assigned for each game installed by an individual. As such, an individual who plays two different PLAYSTUDIOS games on the same day is counted as two DAU while an individual who plays the same PLAYSTUDIOS game on two different devices is counted as one DAU. Brainium tracks DAU by app instance ID, which is assigned to each installation of a game on a particular device. As such, an individual who plays two different Brainium games on the same day is counted as two DAU and an individual who plays the same Brainium game on two different devices is also counted as two DAU. The term "Average DAU" is defined as the average of the DAU, determined as described above, for each day during the period presented. We use DAU and Average DAU as measures of audience engagement to help us understand the size of the active player base engaged with our games on a daily basis. 55 Monthly Active Users (MAU) Monthly Active Users ("MAU") is defined as the number of individuals who played a game in a particular month. As with DAU, an individual who plays two different PLAYSTUDIOS games in the same month is counted as two MAU while an individual who plays the same game on two different devices is counted as one MAU, and an individual who plays two different Brainium games on the same day is counted as two MAU and an individual who plays the same Brainium game on two different devices is also counted as two MAU. The term "Average MAU" is defined as the average of the MAU, determined as described above, for each calendar month during the period presented. We use MAU and Average MAU as measures of audience engagement to help us understand the size of the active player base engaged with our games on a monthly basis. Daily Paying Users (DPU) Daily Paying Users ("DPU") is defined as the number of individuals who made a purchase in a game during a particular day. As with DAU and MAU, we track DPU based on account activity. As such, an individual who makes a purchase in two different games in a particular day is counted as two DPU while an individual who makes purchases in the same game on two different devices is counted as one DPU. The term "Average DPU" is defined as as the average of the DPU, determined as described above, for each day during the period presented. We use DPU and Average DPU to help us understand the size of our active player base that makes in-game purchases. This focus directs our strategic goals in setting player acquisition and pricing strategy. Daily Payer Conversion Daily Payer Conversion is defined as DPU as a percentage of DAU on a particular day. Daily Player Conversion is also sometimes referred to as "Percentage of Paying Users" or "PPU". The term "Average Daily Payer Conversion" is defined as the the Average DPU divided by Average DAU for a given period. We use Daily Payer Conversion and Average Daily Payer Conversion to help us understand the monetization of our active players. Average Daily Revenue Per DAU (ARPDAU) Average Revenue Per DAU ("ARPDAU") is defined for a given period as the average daily revenue per Average DAU, and is calculated as game and advertising revenue for the period, divided by the number of days in the period, divided by the Average DAU during the period. We use ARPDAU as a measure of overall monetization of our players. Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted EBITDA ( AEBITDA ) and AEBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA, or AEBITDA, as used herein, is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is presented as a supplemental disclosure and is reconciled to net income as the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We define AEBITDA as net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and related costs (consisting primarily of severance and other restructuring related costs), stock-based compensation expense, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities, and other income and expense items (including special infrequent items, foreign currency gains and losses, and other non-cash items). We also use AEBITDA Margin, another non-GAAP measure, which we calculate as the percentage of AEBITDA to revenue. We use AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin to monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations, facilitate internal comparisons of our operating performance, and to analyze and evaluate decisions regarding future budgets and initiatives. We believe that both measures are useful because they provide investors with information regarding our operating performance that is used by our management in its reporting and planning processes. AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin as calculated herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures and disclosures reported by other companies. 56 The following table sets forth the reconciliation of AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin to net income and net income margin, the most directly comparable GAAP measure (in thousands, except percentages): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Net (loss) income $ (17,783) $ 10,737 $ 12,807 Depreciation & amortization 35,562 27,398 22,192 Income tax benefit (5,835) (258) (1,671) Stock-based compensation expense 17,727 4,455 3,519 Change in fair value of warrant liability (1,047) (13,933) Change in fair value of contingent consideration (2,411) Special infrequent (1) 7,500 1,427 Restructuring and related ( 2) 13,020 3,082 20,092 Other (980) 565 (392) AEBITDA 38,253 39,546 57,974 GAAP Revenue 290,309 287,419 269,882 Margin as a % of revenue Net (loss) income margin (6.1) % 3.7 % 4.7 % AEBITDA Margin 13.2 % 13.8 % 21.5 % (1) Amounts reported (i) during the year ended December 31, 2021 represent a transaction bonus and a charitable contribution per the terms of the merger agreement related to our business combination with Acies Acquisition Corp. (the Merger Agreement), and (ii) during the year ended December 31, 2020, represent charitable donations made by us related to the COVID-19 pandemic. (2) Amounts reported (i) during the year ended December 31, 2022 represent a non-cash impairment charge related to the suspension of Kingdom Boss development, fees related to evaluating various merger and acquisition opportunities, and fees related to the Tender Offer for the Warrants, (ii) during the year ended December 31, 2021 represent severance-related costs and fees related to evaluating various merger and acquisition opportunities, and (iii) during the year ended December 31, 2020 include $20.0 million resulting from the termination of the profit share provision of the MGM Marketing Agreement as further discussed in Note 4 Related-Party Transactions to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 57 Results of Operations Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2022 versus the year ended December 31, 2021 The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands, except percentages): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 290,309 $ 287,419 $ 2,890 1.0 % Operating expenses 318,390 290,409 27,981 9.6 % Operating loss (28,081) (2,990) (25,091) 839.2 % Net (loss) income (17,783) 10,737 (28,520) (265.6) % AEBITDA 38,253 39,546 (1,293) (3.3) % Net (loss) income margin (6.1) % 3.7 % (9.8)pp (264.9) % AEBITDA margin 13.2 % 13.8 % (0.6)pp (4.3) % pp = percentage points Revenue and Key Performance Indicators (in thousands, except percentages and ARPDAU): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Virtual currency $ 261,620 $ 280,087 $ (18,467) (6.6) % Advertising 21,839 6,964 14,875 213.6 % Other revenue 6,850 368 6,482 1761.4 % Net revenue $ 290,309 $ 287,419 $ 2,890 1.0 % Average DAU 1,917 1,244 673 54.1 % Average MAU 7,932 4,111 3,821 92.9 % Average DPU 29 34 (5) (14.7 %) Average Daily Payer Conversion 1.5 % 2.7 % (1.2)pp (44.4 %) ARPDAU (in dollars) $ 0.41 $ 0.63 $ (0.22) (34.9 %) pp = percentage points Revenue information by geography is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change United States $ 253,556 $ 250,252 $ 3,304 1.3 % North America (excluding United States) 14,161 15,692 (1,531) (9.8) % Other 22,592 21,475 1,117 5.2 % Net revenue $ 290,309 $ 287,419 $ 2,890 1.0 % Net revenue increased $2.9 million, or 1.0%, to $290.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $287.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by increases in advertising and other revenue. Virtual currency revenue decreased $18.5 million, or 6.6%, to $261.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $280.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by the decline in DPU. Our Average Daily Payer Conversion rate decreased 1.2 percentage points to 1.5% during the year ended December 31, 2022 from 2.7% during the year ended December 31, 2021 due to the addition of Tetris and the Brainium portfolio of games, which primarily operate with an advertising revenue model, as described below. Advertising revenue increased $14.9 58 million, or 213.6%, to $21.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $7.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in advertising revenue was primarily driven by an increase in impression count and focus on providing more opportunities for our players to engage with advertisements, including the addition of the Tetris-branded mobile game to our games portfolio and the acquisition of the Brainium portfolio of casual games. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands, except percentages): Years Ended December 31, % of Net Revenue 2022 2021 $ Change % Change 2022 2021 Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 85,400 $ 91,642 $ (6,242) (6.8) % 29.4 % 31.9 % Selling and marketing 80,819 79,042 1,777 2.2 % 27.8 % 27.5 % Research and development 63,315 61,343 1,972 3.2 % 21.8 % 21.3 % General and administrative 40,274 27,902 12,372 44.3 % 13.9 % 9.7 % Depreciation and amortization 35,562 27,398 8,164 29.8 % 12.2 % 9.5 % Restructuring expenses 13,020 3,082 9,938 322.5 % 4.5 % 1.1 % Total operating expenses $ 318,390 $ 290,409 27,981 9.6 % 109.7 % 101.0 % Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $6.2 million, or 6.8%, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was due to a decline in virtual currency revenue. As a percentage of net revenue, cost of revenue decreased from 31.9% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to 29.4% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was due to an increase in advertising and other revenue which do not incur platform fees, and a reduction in royalty expenses associated with our revenue. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses increased by $1.8 million, or 2.2%, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to $1.2 million of additional payroll expenses, $0.8 million of additional outside services, $0.7 million of additional stock-based compensation, and $0.3 million of other selling and marketing expenses. This increase was partially offset by a reduction of user acquisition costs of $1.2 million. As a percentage of net revenue, selling and marketing expenses increased from 27.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to 27.8% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $2.0 million, or 3.2%, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to $6.2 million of additional stock-based compensation, $1.8 million of additional payroll expenses, and $0.3 million of other research and development expenses. This increase was partially offset by a reduction of $6.3 million of outside services expenses. As a percentage of net revenue, research and development expenses increased from 21.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to 21.8% for the year ended December 31, 2022. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $12.4 million, or 44.3%, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to $7.0 million of additional payroll expenses, $6.8 million of additional stock-based compensation, $1.5 million of additional insurance expenses, $1.0 of additional legal expenses, and $2.8 million of other general and administrative costs. This increase was partially offset by one-time charges of $4.2 million for bonuses related to the Acies Merger and $2.5 million related to charitable contributions 59 made during the year ended December 31, 2021. As a percentage of net revenue, general and administrative expenses increased from 9.7% for the year ended December 31, 2021, to 13.9% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $8.2 million, or 29.8%, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to $6.0 million of additional amortization of the license associated with our Tetris-branded mobile game, $1.8 million in additional depreciation of fixed assets, and $1.4 million of amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Brainium and WonderBlocks acquisitions. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.0 million of amortization of internal use software as a result of the impairment of Kingdom Boss. As a percentage of net revenue, depreciation and amortization expenses increased from 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to 12.2% for the year ended December 31, 2022. See Note 8 Internal-Use Software, Net and Note 9 Goodwill and Intangible Assets in our consolidated financial statements. Restructuring Expenses Restructuring expenses increased by $9.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase is due to $8.3 million of non-cash impairment charges related to the suspension of Kingdom Boss development and $2.2 million in fees related to various merger and acquisition opportunities, including the acquisitions of Brainium and WonderBlocks. As a percentage of net revenue, restructuring expenses increased from 1.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Other Income (Expense), Net The following table summarizes our consolidated non-operating income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands, except percentages): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ 1,047 $ 13,933 $ (12,886) (92.5) % Interest income (expense) 1,925 (235) 2,160 (919.1) % Other income (expense) 1,491 (229) 1,720 (751.1) % Total other income, net $ 4,463 $ 13,469 $ (9,006) (66.9) % The change in fair value of warrant liabilities is related to the warrants discussed in Note 8 Warrant Liabilities to our consolidated financial statements herein. Interest income (expense) is related to the unused commitment fees and debt issue costs associated with the Credit Agreement and the Revolver, respectively, as discussed in Note 13 Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements herein. Other income (expense) primarily relates changes in fair value of contingent consideration associated with business combinations, gains or (losses) from equity investments and gains or (losses) from foreign currency transactions with our foreign subsidiaries. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax benefit was approximately $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to an income tax benefit of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2022 reflected an effective income tax rate of 24.6%, which was greater than the statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to benefits from the exercise of non-qualified stock options, state taxes, and research and development credits. The increase in our effective tax rate was partially offset by the reduction of our foreign tax credit carryforward and conversion to foreign tax deductions, as well as a valuation allowance on a portion of our California research credits.. The income tax benefit reflected an effective income tax rate of negative 2.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was less than the statutory federal rate of 21.0% primarily due to the fair value adjustment related to warrants issued which do not have a tax impact and research and development credits that may be utilized on our federal and state tax returns. The decrease in the effective rate was partially offset by the recognition of uncertain tax benefits on research and development tax credits for tax years 2017 through 2021, as well as the recognition of additional state tax liabilities due to an updated nexus study. 60 Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2021 versus the year ended December 31, 2020 See Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K for our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $134.0 million, which consisted of cash on hand and money market mutual funds. Historically, we have funded our operations, including capital expenditures, primarily through cash flow from operating activities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, the cash generated from operations, and the borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement as described below will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve (12) months. However, we intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new games and features or enhance our existing games, improve our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds or we may decide to do so opportunistically. Debt On June 24, 2021, in connection with the Closing, Old PLAYSTUDIOS terminated and replaced its then existing revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank (the Revolver). We, one of our subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Silicon Valley Bank and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as joint bookrunners and joint lead arrangers entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) which provides for a five year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $75 million. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by us, and are available for working capital, general corporate purposes, and permitted acquisitions. Commitment fees and interest rates are determined on the basis of either a Eurodollar rate or an Alternate Base Rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margins are initially 2.50%, in the case of Eurodollar loans, and 1.50%, in the case of Alternate Base Rate loans. The applicable margin is subject to adjustment based upon our Total Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). Eurodollar rates and the Alternate Base Rate are subject to floors of 0.00% and 1.00%, respectively. The Credit Agreement contains various affirmative and negative financial and operational covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries. We are also obligated to comply with two financial maintenance covenants as of the end of each fiscal quarter, commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2021: (i) we must maintain a Total Net Leverage Ratio not to exceed 3.50:1.00 (subject to increase to 4.00:1.00 following consummation of certain material acquisitions) and (ii) we must maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of not less than 1.25:1.00. On May 13, 2022, the Company entered into the Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, which amended the Credit Agreement to, among other things, exclude from the definition of Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio certain funds, up to $15,000,000, expended or to be expended by the Company in connection with the Tender Offer as defined and described in Note 10 - Warrant Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. On August 9, 2022, the Company entered into the Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, which further amended the Credit Agreement (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement) to, among other things, (i) increase the total current available line of credit from $75 million to $81 million, (ii) change the basis for calculation of interest under the facility from LIBOR to SOFR, and (iii) exclude from the calculation of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (A) up to $6 million for the acquisition of, and improvements to, the real property located at 10150 Covington Cross Drive, Las Vegas, Nevada 89144 incurred on or prior to the first anniversary of the effective date of Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, and (B) up to $20,000,000 for the repurchase or redemption of up to 10,996,631 warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock of the Company, and shares of Class A common stock of the Company, on or before December 31, 2023, of which as of the date of Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, the Company had used $1,792,463 to redeem outstanding warrants to purchase Class A common stock in connection with the Tender Offer. As of December 31, 2022, we do not have any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement. 61 Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 33,384 $ 33,876 Net cash used in investing activities (102,349) (56,936) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (9,571) 186,892 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (966) 743 (Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (79,502) $ 164,575 Operating Activities Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, operating activities provided $33.4 million of net cash as compared to $33.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease in net cash provided from operating activities was slightly down, but generally flat. Investing Activities Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, investing activities used $102.3 million of net cash as compared to $56.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase of cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the $70.4 million of cash paid related to the Brainium and WonderBlocks acquisitions and $10.0 million of additional property and equipment purchased in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. The increase was partially offset by $21.0 million of cash paid related to licensing agreements and $8.5 million in notes receivable from third-party game developers during the year ended December 31, 2021. Financing Activities Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, financing activities used $9.6 million of net cash, while financing activities provided $186.9 million of net cash during the year ended December 31, 2021. This increase is primarily due to the $5.0 million payment of minimum guarantee obligations and $4.3 million of share repurchases made during the year ended December 31, 2022 and $185.2 million of net proceeds received in connection with the Acies Merger and PIPE Financing during the year ended December 31, 2021. Contractual Obligations, Commitments, and Contingencies The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022 (in thousands): Total Less than 1 year Years 2 and 3 Years 4 and 5 More than 5 years Operating leases $ 17,442 $ 5,085 $ 7,693 $ 4,282 $ 382 Minimum guarantee obligations 3,000 1,500 1,500 Total $ 20,442 $ 6,585 $ 9,193 $ 4,282 $ 382 Our capital requirements as of December 31, 2022, in connection with the WonderBlocks acquisition, ranges between $0.0 million and $2.5 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain product and financial milestones. Our other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet include unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties. As of December 31, 2022, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $0.5 million and an additional $0.1 million for interest and penalties classified as long-term liabilities. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these 62 consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about items that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Internal-Use Software The Company recognizes internal-use software development costs in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350-40, Internal-Use Software . Capitalized costs include consulting fees, payroll and payroll-related costs, and stock-based compensation for employees who devote time to the Companys internal-use software projects. Capitalization begins when the preliminary project stage is complete and the Company commits resources to the software project and continues during the application development stage. Capitalization ceases when the software has been tested and is ready for its intended use. Qualified costs incurred during the post-implementation/post-operation stage of the Companys software applications relating to upgrades and enhancements are capitalized to the extent it is probable that they will result in added functionality. Costs that cannot be separated between maintenance of, and minor upgrades and enhancements to, internal-use software are expensed as incurred. Capitalized internal-use software development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over a three-year estimated useful life. The Company believes that a straight-line basis for amortization best represents the pattern through which the Company derives value from internal-use software. The Company evaluates the useful lives of these assets and test for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. Business Combinations The Company applies the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combination and allocates the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, acquired technology and acquired trademarks from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 combined with all subsequent amendments, which is collectively ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, provides guidance outlining a single five-step comprehensive revenue model in accounting for revenue from contracts with customers which supersedes all existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. ASU 2014-09 also required expanded disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the new revenue accounting standard) using the modified retrospective method. The Company determines revenue recognition by: identifying the contract, or contracts, with a customer; identifying the performance obligations in each contract; determining the transaction price; allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in each contract; and recognizing revenue when, or as, the Company satisfies performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services. Virtual Currency 63 The Company develops and operates free-to-play games which are downloaded and played on social and mobile platforms. Players may collect virtual currency free of charge through the passage of time or through targeted marketing promotions. Additionally, players can send free gifts of virtual currency to their friends through interactions with certain social platforms. Players may also purchase additional virtual currency through accepted payment methods offered by the respective platform. Once a purchase is completed, the virtual currency is deposited into the players account and is not separately identifiable from previously purchased virtual currency or virtual currency obtained by the player for free. Once obtained, virtual currency (either free or purchased) cannot be redeemed for cash nor exchanged for anything other than game play. When virtual currency is consumed in our games, the player could win and would be awarded additional virtual currency or could lose and lose the future use of that virtual currency. As the player does not receive any additional benefit from our games, nor is the player entitled to any additional rights once the players virtual currency is substantially consumed, the Company has concluded that the virtual currency represents consumable goods. Players can earn loyalty points through a variety of activities, including but not limited to playing the Companys games, engaging with in-game advertising, engaging with marketing emails, and logging into the game. The loyalty points can be redeemed for rewards offered by the Companys awards partners. There is no obligation for the Company to pay or otherwise compensate the Companys awards partners for any player redemptions under the Companys awards partner agreements. In addition, both paying and non-paying players can earn loyalty points. Therefore, the loyalty points earned by players are marketing offers and do not provide players with material rights. Accordingly, the loyalty points do not require any allocation to the transaction price of virtual currency. Additionally, certain of the Companys games participate in an additional program which ranks players into different tiers based on tier points earned during a given time frame. Tier points can be earned through a variety of player engagement activities, including but not limited to logging into our games, achieving multi-day log-in streaks, collecting hourly bonuses, and purchasing virtual currency bundles. Depending on the tier, players are granted access to special benefits at the Companys discretion. Similar to loyalty points that are redeemable for real-world rewards, the tier points are not awarded as a result of a contract with a customer since both paying and non-paying players can earn these tier points. As a result, the tier points earned by players do not provide players with material rights and do not require any allocation to the transaction price of virtual currency. The Company has the performance obligation to display and provide access to the virtual currency purchased by the Companys player within the game whenever the player accesses the game until the virtual currency is consumed. Payment is required at the time of purchase and the transaction price is fixed. The transaction price, which is the amount paid for the virtual currency by the player, is allocated entirely to this single performance obligation. As virtual currency represents consumable goods, the Company recognizes revenue as the virtual currency is consumed over the estimated consumption period. Since the Company is unable to distinguish between the consumption of purchased or free virtual currency, the Company must estimate the amount of outstanding purchased virtual currency at each reporting date based on player behavior. The Company has determined through a review of player behavior that players who purchase virtual currency generally are not purchasing additional virtual currency if their existing virtual currency balances have not been substantially consumed. As the Company can track the duration between purchases of virtual currency for individual players, the Company is able to reliably estimate the period over which virtual currency is consumed. Based upon an analysis of players historical play behavior, the timing difference between when virtual currency is purchased by a player and when such virtual currency is consumed in gameplay is relatively short, currently one to seven days with an average consumption period of approximately one day. The Company recognizes revenue from in-game purchases of virtual currency over this estimated average period between when the virtual currency is purchased and consumed. If applicable, the Company records the unconsumed virtual currency in Deferred revenue and records the prepaid payment processing fees associated with this deferred revenue in Prepaid expenses. The Company continues to gather detailed player behavior and assess this data in relation to its revenue recognition policy. To the extent the player behavior changes, the Company reassesses its estimates and assumptions used for revenue recognition prospectively on the basis that such changes are caused by new factors indicating a change in player behavior patterns. Advertising Revenue The Company has contractual relationships with various advertising service providers for advertisements within the Companys games. Advertisements can be in the form of an impression, click-throughs, banner ads, or offers. Offers are advertisements where the players are rewarded with virtual currency for watching a short video. The Company has determined the advertising service provider to be its customer and displaying the advertisements within its games is identified 64 as the single performance obligation. Revenue from advertisements and offers are recognized at a point in time when the advertisements are displayed, or when the player has completed the offer as the advertising service provider simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided from these services. The price can be determined by the applicable evidence of the arrangement, which may include a master contract or a third-party statement of activity. The transaction price is generally the product of the advertising units delivered (e.g. impressions, videos viewed) and the contractually agreed upon price per advertising unit. Further, the price per advertising unit can also be based on revenue share percentages stated in the contract. The number of advertising units delivered is determined at the end of each month so there is no uncertainty about the transaction price. Payment terms are stipulated as a specific number of days subsequent to end of the month, ranging from 45 to 60 days. Principal Agent Considerations The Companys games are played on various social and mobile third-party platforms for which such third parties collect monies from players and remit net proceeds after deducting payment processing fees. The Company is primarily responsible for providing access to the virtual currency, has control over the content and functionality of games before they are accessed by players, and has the discretion to establish the pricing for the virtual currency. Therefore, the Company concluded that it is the principal and as a result, revenues are reported gross of payment processing fees. Payment processing fees are recorded as a component of Cost of revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company reports its advertising revenue net of amounts retained by advertising service providers. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes , which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in its consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under ASC 740, the Company determines deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the temporary difference between the consolidated financial statements and tax bases of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which it expects the differences to be recovered or settled. The Company establishes valuation allowances when necessary, based on the weight of the available positive and negative evidence, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740, which requires companies to adjust their consolidated financial statements to reflect only those tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the issue. ASC 740 prescribes a comprehensive model for the consolidated financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. We have elected to account for the impact of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) inclusion and base erosion anti-avoidance tax (BEAT) based on the period cost method. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and our assessment, to the extent we have made one, of their potential impact on our financial condition and our results of operations.