Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our condensed consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, our, and the Company are intended to mean the business and operations of PLAYSTUDIOS, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. All forward-looking statements in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances, except as required by law. Overview We are a developer and publisher of free-to-play casual games for mobile and social platforms each of which incorporate our unique playAWARDS loyalty program. Over our eleven-year history, we developed a portfolio of free-to-play social casino games that are considered to be among the most innovative and unique in the genre. They include the award-winning POP! Slots, myVEGAS Slots, my KONAMISlots,myVEGAS Blackjack, myVEGAS Bingo, Tetris, Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, Sudoku, and Mahjong. Our games are based on original content, real-world slot game content, as well as third-party licensed brands and are downloadable and playable for free on multiple social and mobile-based platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, Amazon Appstore, and Facebook. Each of our games is powered by our proprietary playAWARDS program and incorporates loyalty points that are earned by players as they engage with our games. These loyalty points enable our players to earn real-world rewards from a portfolio of entertainment, retail, technology, travel, leisure, and gaming brands across the globe. The rewards are provided by our collection of awards partners, the majority of whom provide their rewards at no cost to us, in exchange for product integration, marketing support, and participation in our loyalty program. The program is enabled by our playAWARDS platform which consists of a robust suite of tools that enable our awards partners to manage their rewards in real time, measure the value of our players engagement, and gain insight into the effectiveness and value they derive from the program. Through our self-service platform, awards partners can launch new rewards, make changes to existing offers, and in real time see how players are engaging with their brands. The platform tools also provide awards partners the ability to measure the off-line value our players generate as consumers and patrons of their real-world establishments. Our playAWARDS platform embodies all of the features, tools, and capabilities needed to deliver loyalty programs tailored for the games industry. Our consumer-facing brand for our loyalty program is myVIP. The myVIP program is an aspirational benefits framework, with in-game mechanics and rewards features, along with a player development and hosting program. The program dynamically ranks and assigns players to tiers based on their accumulation of tier points, which are a proxy for their overall engagement with our games. The tier points are separate from and are not interchangeable with the loyalty points earned in the playAWARDS program. Qualified players are provided access to enhanced benefits that increase with each tier. Higher tiers provide access to a VIP player portal whereby players can view and purchase special chip bundles, redeem loyalty points for a curated set of rewards, and communicate directly with a dedicated personal host. The VIP player portal, concierge, and host programs enhance the in-game and real-world reward experience with both in-game and in-person, invitation-only special events. We believe that the myVIP program drives increased player engagement and retention, and therefore extends each game's life-cycle and revenue potential. We primarily generate our revenue from the sale of virtual currency, which players can choose to purchase at any time to enhance their playing experience. Once purchased, our virtual currency cannot be withdrawn from the game, transferred from one game to another or from one player to another, or be redeemed for monetary value. Players who install our games receive free virtual currency upon the initial launch of the game, and they may also collect virtual currency free of charge at periodic intervals or through targeted marketing promotions. Players may exhaust the free virtual currency and may choose to purchase additional virtual currency. Additionally, players can send free gifts of virtual currency to their friends on Facebook. Our revenue from virtual currency has been generated world-wide, but is largely concentrated in North America. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also generate revenue from in-game advertising. Advertisements can be in the form of an impression, click-throughs, banner ads, or offers, where players are rewarded with virtual currency or loyalty points for watching a short video. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and related containment and mitigation efforts, including social distancing, shelter-in-place, quarantine, and similar policies, practices, and governmental orders, have resulted in widespread disruption in global economies, productivity, and financial markets and have materially altered our day-to-day business operations. We have followed guidance by the U.S., Israel, Hong Kong, and other applicable foreign and local governments to protect our employees and operations during the pandemic. We cannot predict potential future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or other future health epidemics or contagious disease outbreaks on our business or operations, but we will continue to actively monitor the related issues and may take further precautionary actions that alter our business operations, including as may be required by federal, state, local, or foreign authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, players, partners, and stockholders. In addition to the potential direct impacts to our business, the global economy has been, and is likely to continue to be, significantly weakened as a result of the actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and future government intervention remains uncertain. A weakened global economy may impact our players and their purchasing decisions within our games, in particular as a result of the limitations associated with redeeming real-world rewards due to government-mandated or other restrictions on travel and other activities and limitations on our players discretionary spending, consumer activity during the pandemic and its impact on advertising investments, and the ability of our business partners, including our awards partners, to navigate this complex social, health, and economic environment, any of which could result in disruption to our business and results of our operations. The duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot accurately be predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the virus, the existence of any additional waves of the COVID-19 pandemic and variants thereof, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, progress towards widespread rapid testing, effective treatment alternatives, and the success and timing of vaccination efforts, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, players, and business partners. We have observed labor shortages, increasing competition for talent, and increasing employee attrition. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business may be harmed. See Risk Factors for more information related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance There are a number of factors that affect the performance of our business, and the comparability of our results from period to period, including: Third-Party Platform AgreementsHistorically we derived substantially all of our revenue from in-game purchases of virtual currency that are processed by platform providers such as the Apple App Store, Google Store, Amazon Appstore, and on Facebook. The platform providers charge us a transaction fee to process payments from our players for their purchase of in-game virtual currency. These platform fees are generally set at 30% of the in-game purchase. Each platform provider has broad discretion to set its platform fees and to change and interpret its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers in its sole discretion, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. Player AcquisitionEstablishing and maintaining a loyal network of players and paying players is vital for our success. As such, we spend a significant amount on advertising and other forms of player acquisition, such as traditional marketing and advertising, email and push notifications, and cross promoting between our games in order to grow our player base. These expenditures are generally related to new content launches, game enhancements, and ongoing programs to drive new player acquisition and the reactivation of lapsed player engagement. Our player acquisition strategy is centered on a payback period methodology, and we strive to optimize spend between the acquisition of new players and the reactivation of inactive players. Player MonetizationOur revenue to date has been primarily driven through the sale of virtual currency. Paying players purchase virtual currency in our games because of the perceived value, which is dependent on the relative ease of obtaining equivalent virtual currency by simply playing our game. The perceived value of our virtual currency can be impacted by various actions that we take in our games including offering discounts for virtual currency or giving away virtual currency in promotions. Managing game economies is difficult and relies on our assumptions and judgment. If we fail to manage our virtual economies properly or fail to promptly and successfully respond to any such disruption, our 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS reputation may suffer and our players may be less likely to play our games and to purchase virtual currency from us in the future, which would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer. Investment in Game DevelopmentIn order to maintain interest from existing players and add new players and achieve our desired revenue growth, we must continually improve the content, offers, and features in our existing games and the release of new games. As a result, we invest a significant amount of our technological and creative resources to ensure that we support an appropriate cadence of innovative content that our players will find appealing. These expenditures generally occur in advance of the release of new content or the launch of a new game, and the resulting revenue may not exceed the development costs, or the game or feature may be abandoned in its entirety. Investment in our playAWARDS and myVIP programsIn order to drive player engagement and retention we invest a significant amount of resources to enhance the playAWARDS and myVIP programs. We continually evaluate these programs through an iterative feedback process with our players and awards partners and update them so that both our players and awards partners are able to optimize their personalized experience. As a result, we continuously incur expenses to enhance and update these programs. However, the results may not generate revenue and the enhancements may require additional significant modifications or be abandoned in their entirety. Real-World RewardsWe currently offer real-world rewards relating to, among other things, dining, live entertainment shows, and hotel rooms, and we plan to continue to expand and diversify our rewards loyalty program in order to maintain and enhance the perceived value offering to our players. Our players willingness to make in-game purchases is directly impacted by our ability to provide desirable rewards. The real-world rewards we offer to our players are provided at no cost to us by our awards partners, and there is no obligation for us to pay or otherwise compensate either our awards partners or players for any player redemptions under our awards partner agreements. Key Performance Indicators We manage our business by regularly reviewing several key operating metrics to track historical performance, identify trends in player activity, and set strategic goals for the future. Our key performance metrics are impacted by several factors that could cause them to fluctuate on a quarterly basis, such as platform providers policies, seasonality, player connectivity, and the addition of new content to games. We believe these measures are useful to investors for the same reasons. In addition, we also present certain non-GAAP performance measures. These performance measures are presented as supplemental disclosure and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for the consolidated financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP. The non-GAAP measures presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the respective related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The key performance indicators and non-GAAP measures presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies and are not a substitute for financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Key Performance Indicators Daily Active Users (DAU) Daily Active Users ("DAU") is defined as the number of individuals who played a game on a particular day. We track DAU by the player ID, which is assigned for each game installed by an individual. As such, an individual who plays two different PLAYSTUDIOS games on the same day is counted as two DAU while an individual who plays the same PLAYSTUDIOS game on two different devices is counted as one DAU. Brainium tracks DAU by app instance ID, which is assigned to each installation of a game on a particular device. As such, an individual who plays two different Brainium games on the same day is counted as two DAU and an individual who plays the same Brainium game on two different devices is also counted as two DAU. The term "Average DAU" is defined as the average of the DAU, determined as described above, for each day during the period presented. We use DAU and Average DAU as measures of audience engagement to help us understand the size of the active player base engaged with our games on a daily basis. Monthly Active Users (MAU) Monthly Active Users ("MAU") is defined as the number of individuals who played a game in a particular month. As with DAU, an individual who plays two different PLAYSTUDIOS games in the same month is counted as two MAU while an individual who plays the same game on two different devices is counted as one MAU, and an individual who plays two different Brainium games on the same day is counted as two MAU and an individual who plays the same Brainium game on two different devices is also counted as two MAU. The term "Average MAU" is defined as the average of the MAU, 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS determined as described above, for each calendar month during the period presented. We use MAU and Average MAU as measures of audience engagement to help us understand the size of the active player base engaged with our games on a monthly basis. Daily Paying Users (DPU) Daily Paying Users ("DPU") is defined as the number of individuals who made a purchase in a game during a particular day. As with DAU and MAU, we track DPU based on account activity. As such, an individual who makes a purchase in two different games in a particular day is counted as two DPU while an individual who makes purchases in the same game on two different devices is counted as one DPU. The term "Average DPU" is defined as the average of the DPU, determined as described above, for each day during the period presented. We use DPU and Average DPU to help us understand the size of our active player base that makes in-game purchases. This focus directs our strategic goals in setting player acquisition and pricing strategy. Daily Payer Conversion Daily Payer Conversion is defined as DPU as a percentage of DAU on a particular day. Daily Player Conversion is also sometimes referred to as "Percentage of Paying Users" or "PPU". The term "Average Daily Payer Conversion" is defined as the Average DPU divided by Average DAU for a given period. We use Daily Payer Conversion and Average Daily Payer Conversion to help us understand the monetization of our active players. Average Daily Revenue Per DAU (ARPDAU) Average Revenue Per DAU ("ARPDAU") is defined for a given period as the average daily revenue per Average DAU, and is calculated as game and advertising revenue for the period, divided by the number of days in the period, divided by the Average DAU during the period. We use ARPDAU as a measure of overall monetization of our players. Results of Operations Summarized Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 80,123 $ 70,451 $ 9,672 13.7 % Operating expenses 82,330 85,294 (2,964) (3.5) % Operating loss (2,207) (14,843) 12,636 (85.1) % Net loss (2,570) (25,212) 22,642 (89.8) % Net loss margin (3.2) % (35.8) % 32.6 (91.1) % 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue and Key Performance Indicators (in thousands, except percentages and ARPDAU) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change % Change Virtual currency $ 64,385 $ 65,935 $ (1,550) (2.4) % Advertising 13,085 4,075 9,010 221.1 % Other revenue 2,653 441 2,212 501.6 % Net revenue $ 80,123 $ 70,451 $ 9,672 13.7 % Average DAU 3,565 1,555 2,010 129.3 % Average MAU 13,082 6,913 6,169 89.2 % Average DPU 28 31 (3) (9.7) % Average Daily Payer Conversion 0.8 % 2.0 % (1.2) pp (60.0) % ARPDAU (in dollars) $ 0.24 $ 0.50 $ (0.26) (52.0) % pp = percentage points Revenue information by geography is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Change % Change United States $ 69,557 $ 62,103 $ 7,454 12.0 % North America (excluding United States) 10,566 3,691 6,875 186.3 % Other 4,657 (4,657) (100.0) % Net revenue $ 80,123 $ 70,451 $ 9,672 13.7 % Net revenue increased $9.7 million to $80.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $70.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by increases of $9.0 million in advertising revenue and $2.2 million in other revenue. The increase in advertising revenue was primarily driven by an increase in impression count and focus on providing more opportunities for our players to engage with advertisements, including the addition of the Tetris-branded mobile game to our games portfolio and the acquisition of the Brainium portfolio of casual games. Virtual currency revenue decreased $1.6 million to $64.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $65.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, primarily driven by the decline in DPU. Our Average Daily Payer Conversion rate decreased 1.2 percentage points to 0.8% during the three months ended March 31, 2023 from 2.0% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 due to the addition of Tetris and the Brainium portfolio of games, which primarily operate with an advertising revenue model, as described above. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses for each applicable period (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, % of Revenue 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 Operating expenses: Cost of revenue $ 19,527 $ 21,033 $ (1,506) (7.2) % 24.4 % 29.9 % Selling and marketing 18,066 20,540 (2,474) (12.0) % 22.5 % 29.2 % Research and development 17,755 16,981 774 4.6 % 22.2 % 24.1 % General and administrative 11,901 9,691 2,210 22.8 % 14.9 % 13.8 % Depreciation and amortization 11,033 8,394 2,639 31.4 % 13.8 % 11.9 % Restructuring expenses 4,048 8,655 (4,607) (53.2) % 5.1 % 12.3 % Total operating expenses $ 82,330 $ 85,294 $ (2,964) (3.5) % 102.8 % 121.1 % 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $1.5 million to $19.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $21.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue decreased from 29.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to 24.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily related to an increase in advertising revenue which does not incur platform fees, and a reduction in royalty expenses associated with our revenue. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses decreased by $2.5 million to $18.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $20.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction of user acquisition costs of $2.7 million. As a percentage of revenue, selling and marketing expenses decreased from 29.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to 22.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $0.8 million to $17.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $17.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of employee costs of $2.2 million and an increase of other research and development costs of $0.6 million. This was offset by a reduction of $1.2 million of stock based compensation and $0.8 million of outside services. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $2.2 million to $11.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $9.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to $2.4 million of additional employee costs and an increase of other general and administrative expense of $0.6 million. This increase was offset by a reduction of $0.7 million of stock based compensation. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $2.6 million to $11.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $8.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Brainium and WonderBlocks, license renewals, and additional deprecation of property and equipment. Restructuring Expenses Restructuring expenses decreased by $4.6 million from the three months ended March 31, 2022 to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to an $8.4 million non-cash impairment charge related to the suspension of Kingdom Boss development. This decrease was offset by an increase of $2.3 million related to the internal reorganization and $1.5 million in fees related to various merger and acquisition opportunities. Other Expense, Net The following table summarizes our consolidated non-operating expense for each applicable period (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ (1,058) $ (2,716) $ 1,658 61.0 % Interest expense 895 (5) 900 18000.0 % Other (expense) income 60 187 (127) (67.9) % Total other expense, net $ (103) $ (2,534) $ 2,431 (95.9) % The change in fair value of warrant liabilities is related to the warrants discussed in Note 11Warrant Liabilities to our consolidated financial statements herein. Interest expense is related to the unused commitment fees and debt issue costs associated with the Credit Agreement and the Private Venture Growth Capital Loan, respectively, as discussed in Note 14Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements herein. Other (expense) income primary relates to gains or (losses) from equity investments and gains or (losses) from foreign currency transactions with our foreign subsidiaries. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes resulted in a tax expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to a tax expense of $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our effective tax rate was (11.3)% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to our statutory tax rate of 21%. Our effective tax rate was increased for non-deductible stock options, the deduction of foreign taxes, and for the recognition of estimated state taxes. Our effective tax rate was decreased by additional foreign taxes paid related to a settlement with the Israel Tax Authority, the recognition of additional state tax liabilities due to an updated nexus study, and the fair value adjustment of the warrant liability. Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted EBITDA (AEBITDA) and AEBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA, or AEBITDA, as used herein, is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is presented as a supplemental disclosure and is reconciled to net income as the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We define AEBITDA as net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and related costs (consisting primarily of severance and other restructuring related costs), stock-based compensation expense, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities, and other income and expense items (including special infrequent items, foreign currency gains and losses, and other non-cash items). We also use AEBITDA Margin, another non-GAAP measure, which we calculate as the percentage of AEBITDA to revenue. We use AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin to monitor and evaluate the performance of our business operations, facilitate internal comparisons of our operating performance, and to analyze and evaluate decisions regarding future budgets and initiatives. We believe that both measures are useful because they provide investors with information regarding our operating performance that is used by our management in its reporting and planning processes. AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin as calculated herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures and disclosures reported by other companies. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of AEBITDA and AEBITDA Margin to net loss and net loss margin, the most directly comparable GAAP measure (in thousands, except percentages). Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (2,570) $ (25,212) Depreciation & amortization 11,033 8,394 Income tax expense 260 7,835 Stock-based compensation expense 4,853 6,868 Change in fair value of warrant liability 1,058 2,716 Change in fair value of contingent consideration (53) Restructuring and related(1) 4,048 8,655 Other, net(2) (864) (182) AEBITDA 17,765 9,074 GAAP Revenue 80,123 70,451 Margin as a % of revenue Net loss margin (3.2) % (35.8) % AEBITDA Margin 22.2 % 12.9 % (1)Amounts reported during the three months ended March 31, 2023 relate to the internal reorganization, including severance-related costs, and fees related to evaluating various merger and acquisition opportunities. Amounts reported during the three months ended March 31, 2022 consist of fees related to evaluating various merger and acquisition opportunities, severance-related costs, and a non-cash impairment charge related to the suspension of Kingdom Boss development. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS (2)Amounts reported in Other, net include interest expense, interest income, gains/losses from equity investments, foreign currency gains/losses, and non-cash gains/losses on the disposal of assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $127.5 million, which consisted of cash on hand and money market mutual funds. Historically, we have funded our operations, including capital expenditures, primarily through cash flow from operating activities. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, the cash generated from operations, and the borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement as described below will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve (12) months. However, we intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new games and features or enhance our existing games, improve our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds or we may decide to do so opportunistically. Debt For a description of the Credit Agreement, see Note 14Long-Term Debt in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statementsand Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2023, we do not have any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement. Cash Flows The following tables present a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,503 $ 11,585 Net cash used in investing activities (7,618) (5,107) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3,490) 130 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents 89 (145) (Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (6,516) 6,463 Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, operating activities provided $4.5 million of net cash as compared to $11.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to a unfavorable change in operating assets and liabilities, including the increase in accounts receivable of $6.9 million due to timing fluctuations in receivables collection. Investing Activities Our investing activities are composed of cash used for game development and purchase of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, investing activities used $7.6 million of net cash as compared to $5.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The change in cash used in investing activities was due to the Company receiving payments of $2.3 million for notes receivable during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Financing Activities Our cash flow (used in) provided by financing activities primarily consists of payments for share repurchases partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, financing activities used $3.5 million of net cash as compared to providing $0.1 million of cash during the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in cash used in financing activities was due to $5.4 million of share repurchases made during the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was offset by $1.9 million of cash provided by stock options exercises. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Contractual Obligations, Commitments, and Contingencies As of March 31, 2023, there had been no material changes to our aggregated indebtedness and other contractual obligations previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about items that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Except as described in Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 10, 2023.