Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any reason to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. 7 PART I As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context suggests otherwise, the terms Playtika, the Company, we, our, and us mean Playtika Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Our mission is to entertain the world through infinite ways to play. We are one of the worlds leading operators of mobile games creating fun, innovative experiences that entertain and engage our users. We have built best-in-class live game operations services and a proprietary technology platform to support our portfolio of games which enable us to drive strong user engagement and monetization. Our games are free-to-play, and we are experts in providing novel, curated in-game content and offers to our users, at optimal points in their game journeys. Our players love our games because they are fun, creative, engaging, and kept fresh through a release of new features that are customized for different player segments. As a result, we have retained paying users over long periods of time. We have primarily grown our game portfolio through acquisitions. In certain acquisitions, we seek to enhance the scale and profitability of those games by leveraging our live operations services. By leveraging these operations, our game studios can dedicate a greater portion of their time to creating innovative content, features, and experiences for players. In other acquisitions, studios operate largely independently of these centralized functions, at least initially. We have a powerful combination of scale and free cash flow. In the year ended December 31, 2024, we generated $2,549.3 million in revenues, net income of $162.2 million and $757.7 million in Credit Adjusted EBITDA, representing a net income margin of 6.4%, and a Credit Adjusted EBITDA margin of 29.7%. We were founded in Israel in 2010, when we released our first game, Slotomania, which remains the second largest game in our portfolio based on revenues as of December 31, 2024. On January 15, 2021, we became a publicly traded company with our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol PLTK. Our Core Strengths Portfolio of sustainable, top grossing games with a loyal user base Our strategy is to focus on a portfolio of games that we believe have the potential for high revenues and longevity that we can continue to grow through our live operations expertise. Our goal is to create games that are highly engaging and foster social connection among our players. We build long-term, sustainable games by employing a combination of creative and technical staff that includes storytellers, coders, artists, and data-scientists. We are experts in live operations We run best-in-class live operations for our games, which drive the successful engagement and monetization of our users. Through our live operations, we actively manage and enhance players in-game experiences by analyzing individual gameplay and designing game experiences suited to user preferences. By delivering content, offers, and features to users at the right times during their gameplay, we drive paying user conversion, continued monetization, and long-term paying user retention. We provide our game studios with various technical functionalities and live operations services that help to enable our games to run at scale and rapidly incorporate the latest available functional enhancements. 8 Our financial discipline drives our success and provides us greater flexibility to deploy capital Our attractive margin profile is driven by our ability to retain paying users over the long term, our ownership of substantially all of the intellectual property used in our mobile games, and financial discipline. This results in a superior margin profile and cash flow that we can use to reinvest in acquisitions and our business. Founder-led management team with longstanding tenure at Playtika We are led by our visionary co-founder, Robert Antokol, who has managed Playtika since inception, transforming the Company from a small games business, through numerous acquisitions and steady organic growth, to become one of the largest mobile games platforms in the world. Further, most of our senior management team has been working with us in various capacities for a significant part of the Companys history. Recently we restructured our management team to, among other things, remove the chief revenue officer position bringing the studios directly under the management of our chief executive officer, Mr. Antokol. While we have had significant changes and certain departures from our executive team in the past year, we believe that the overall makeup of our executive management team balances stability in our culture while embracing agility and a stronger than ever focus on strategic execution. Successful track record of pursuing value accretive acquisitions Our acquisition strategy is generally focused on identifying and acquiring games with broad appeal and scalable leadership potential in their genres. We maintain a highly disciplined approach to acquisitions and have a proven history of making acquisitions at attractive prices and achieving meaningful synergies. Data-driven performance marketing capabilities drive our high-ROI user acquisition Our performance marketing capabilities focus on cost-effectively acquiring users. Previously we leveraged a centralized marketing team to achieve efficiencies across our portfolio of games. However, with the recent restructuring of our management team, we have adopted a custom-tailored approach to marketing with certain studios having largely independent marketing functions that are better able to deploy strategies that are most effective for the particular studio. Our user acquisition strategy is centered on a payback period methodology and we optimize spend between the acquisition of new users and the reactivation of inactive players. Our Daily Payer Conversion increased from 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2023, to 3.8% in the year ended December 31, 2024, and our ARPDAU increased from $0.81 in the year ended December 31, 2023, to $0.86 in the year ended December 31, 2024. In addition, our average DPUs remains at 0.31 million in both the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2024. Our Live Operations Services Since our founding, we have developed most of the core technical functionality and services that form the backbone to support our games. We have built these core technical functions and services, and created a scalable, proprietary technology platform that enhances our live operations services. Our platform is powered by Machine Learning Platform and artificial intelligence (AI) engines for various use-cases in marketing, games operations and monetization. Our technology platform includes: Digital Studio suite, which is being developed to use digital and AI technologies to optimize marketing, game operations and monetization, including generative AI models for efficient art processes and for our customer support and VIP processes; Meta-games and monetization events, including tournaments, challenges, and missions; Payment systems, including payment page optimization tools used for direct-to-consumer and Playtika Webstore transactions; Loyalty programs; User identity capabilities to enable user registration with our games and across Playtikas portfolio; Data analytics infrastructure, including business intelligence, simulation, and modelling frameworks and dashboards; 9 Tailored user data, including segmentation and grouping, enabling customizable content curation; Social gaming infrastructure, including multiplayer game services, match-making algorithms, clans, and intra-game social networking; and Customer service, monitoring, disaster recovery, alerts, and security. One of our core strengths lies in our ability to generate assets that maintain the distinct style and character fidelity of each individual game in our portfolio. Our efforts have involved automating the process of generating creative content for features and promos using state-of-the-art generative AI models. We also utilize generative AI on VIP and Customer Support domains, where our agents will receive suggestions and recommendations based on Large Language Models integrated into their work platform. There are also a number of additional services we provide to studios, based on their games needs and strategies, including: Digital Studio: A developing suite of advanced and easy to use tools to maximize efficiency and designed to enhance revenue by personalizing the player experience; Player Journey: Proprietary software that allows game operators to create and deploy personalized game content in real-time without extensive software development; Campaign Manager: Suite of tools and systems enabling outbound communication with players (push notifications, email, SMS, social networks, etc.); Marketing Suite: Enhanced data-driven tools for managing user acquisition and retargeting campaigns, based on Lifetime Value predictions and budget allocation recommendations models driven by AI, reducing operation time and increasing efficiency; operates ad-monetization activities by managing automatic and manual auctions and bids; AB Boost: An end-to-end system for planning, executing, an analyzing experiments for AB testing, offers automation and optimization using statistical calculations and AI recommendations; Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning: Software and algorithms to support artificial intelligence and machine learning models to enhance and supplement traditional data analytics; Customer Service: Additional tools and software for customer relationship management, account management, and customer service activities; and Back Office Services Software (BOSS): Complete suite of back-office support software that helps manage day-to-day game operations and configurations in one place. Our live operations services are constantly evolving as our culture of innovation and optimization allows us to share and implement improvements across our portfolio of games and game studios. Our proprietary technology allows us to analyze data across the full user lifecyclefrom user acquisition, through monetization and retentionhelping our studios make smarter decisions related to player engagement and monetization. We are able to use our scale to gain significant insight into the operations of our games and refine and implement effective strategies with respect to feature innovation, content cadence, loyalty rewards, game economies, and player segmentation. Feature Development We strive to create features and player experiences that optimize player engagement, intended to result in increased conversion and monetization. We are focused on continuing to implement and enhance features that keep games fresh and increase user engagement, including awarding in-game virtual items, providing engaging new game themes, motifs, challenges and in-game missions, as well as in-game chat and messaging capabilities. We serve these features to our users based on their preferences and the optimal timing during each players gameplay. Depending on the circumstances, this could mean increasing or decreasing the amount of new features for our players. Our Acquisitions Strategy We maintain a highly disciplined approach to acquisitions and have a proven history of acquiring games and game studios at attractive prices and driving incremental stockholder value from those games. Over the past 13 years, we have successfully acquired a number of mobile games and studios, including SuperPlay (2024), InnPlay Studios (2023), Youda Games (2023), JustPlay (2022), Reworks (2021), Seriously (2019), Supertreat (2019), Wooga (2018), Jelly Button (2017), House of Fun (2014), World Series of Poker (2013) and Bingo Blitz (2012). 10 Generally, our strategy involves identifying potential acquisition targets that fall into one of five categories: Newly developed or underperforming games with a proven game concept in our core genres to facilitate improvement in engagement, monetization, and retention; Established games in our core genres, to increase the trajectory of the games; New types of business models within mobile games as well as new genres of games within in-app purchase mobile games; Businesses and applications that enable us to further leverage our existing technology and capabilities to offer live-ops and monetization solutions to game developers; or Acquisitions of fast growing games in established genres that will enhance our growth profile. In some acquisitions, we deploy our live operations services to enhance, where possible, the existing live operations capabilities and seek to integrate them into our technical infrastructure. Our geographic diversity allows us to integrate acquisition targets, especially studios located in Europe near our other studios and our headquarters in Israel. We consider acquisitions as a pivotal strategy for increasing our mobile game offerings and enhancing the diversity and strength of our portfolio. As we continue to expand our portfolio through the acquisition of additional studios and the development of new games, we expect to incur increased operating expenses associated with games that are still in the early stages of their lifecycle. These games typically generate revenue at lower operating margins, which may dilute our overall operating margins during the period of development and ramp-up. Marketing and Player Lifecycle Management Over our history, we have gained significant expertise in acquiring new users, converting users to payers, retaining active users, and re-engaging inactive users. Our success stems from a deep and nuanced understanding of the key aspects of data-based marketing strategies applicable to our industry, including how to measure successful user acquisition as it relates to mobile games, where to allocate marketing spend, how to optimize media buying budgets, and how to design ads that attract users who are likely to install and play our games. We develop tailored monetization and retention strategies for different parts of our users lifecycles, including before they become paying users, after they become paying users, and for users who become inactive. We operate a centralized marketing team that performs key functions like media buying on behalf of our various studios. We have also made acquisitions to bring certain marketing capabilities in house to increase our effectiveness. Payback period-oriented approach to user acquisition Our disciplined user acquisition strategy is centered on a payback period approach, which focuses on user monetization efforts that recoups our marketing spend during a reasonable timeframe. We focus on efficiently acquiring users that can be active for long periods of time. We acquire users from more than 40 different sources, including mobile ad networks, search and social networks. Re-targeting We use re-targeting campaigns to reactivate our inactive users. We have made significant investments in our measurement and re-targeting capabilities, and intend to continue to focus on these capabilities, particularly as many of our games were released several years ago. We leverage these investments to create personalized retargeting campaigns to re-engage former users. Our attractive margin profile is driven by our ability to retain paying users over the long term, our ownership of substantially all of the intellectual property used in our mobile games, and financial discipline. This results in a superior margin profile and cash flow that we can use to reinvest in acquisitions and our business. 11 Our Portfolio of Games Our portfolio includes 27 games, 14 of which we actively manage and promote, and our top ten games collectively represented 94.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024. Many of our games are classic in nature with mass appeal due to their highly engaging game mechanics. Our portfolio includes both casual and social casino-themed games. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our casual games generated 58.9% of our revenues, with our social casino-themed games accounting for the remaining 41.1%. Our two largest games, Slotomania and Bingo Blitz, generated approximately 45% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024. Overview of Top 10 Games Bingo Blitz is a bingo adventure where users progress through various levels in the theme of major global cities and are able to connect with others to earn virtual items and bonuses, including additional virtual coins and power-ups. Slotomania is a premier social slots game with an inventory of over 250 original slot games where players earn in-game virtual rewards and virtual coins and have the ability to purchase virtual items, including virtual coins, boosts and other items to further their progression and unlock more virtual rewards. Solitaire Grand Harvest modernizes the classic solitaire game by adding new elements and challenges. Junes Journey is a hidden object game that is set in the 1920s, where players step into the role of amateur detective June Parker to investigate mysterious quests. House of Fun features an inventory of over 300 games, including a catalogue of uniquely themed games, with a standard leveling system where players earn virtual in-game items including virtual rewards, bonuses and coins progressing through various missions that are updated regularly. World Series of Poker is the official social app of the World Series of Poker and allows players to compete with friends and other players to win their own virtual World Series of Poker Bracelet. Caesars Slots features an inventory of over 200 slot games developed to have a look and feel similar to those played in casinos, including high roller lounges only accessible to those with a certain amount of virtual coins. Best Fiends is a classic match-3 game with RPG-like character development featuring an expansive story set in the mystical world of Minutia. Animals and Coins is a luck-battle game where players build and defend their treasure islands while collecting coins and raiding friends and other players bases to become ruler of the animal kingdom. Governor of Poker 3 is a multiplayer Texas holdem game where players compete in various poker formats within a Wild West-themed setting. *SuperPlay Ltd.s games are not included in this list as the studio was acquired in November 2024. However, based on pro forma performance, Dice Dreams, SuperPlay Ltd.s coin looter game, would have been in our top 10 by revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024. Research and Development Our research and design team has extensive expertise in creating new content and gameplay features as well as proprietary tools and systems to enable the efficient design, development and implementation of new content and features. We invest heavily in research and development, and, as of December 31, 2024, approximately 75% of our employees are employed in research and development, which enables us to consistently introduce updates and enhancements to our games, which we strive to do on an effective basis. We have a diverse pool of talent located in game development hubs, including in Israel and Germany. This provides us with both a funnel of new, internally developed game concepts, ideas for improvements to our systems, and close relationships with those local game-development communities. Competition We face significant competition in all aspects of our business. Our primary competitors include Tencent Holdings, Activision Blizzard (Microsoft), Electronic Arts, Take-Two Interactive/Zynga, Light & Wonder/SciPlay, AppLovin and Aristocrat/Pixel United. On the broadest scale, we compete for the leisure time, attention and discretionary spending of our players versus 12 other forms of offline and online entertainment, including social media, reading and other video games on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of player experience, breadth and depth of gameplay, ability to create or license compelling content, brand awareness and reputation and access to distribution channels. We believe these factors, among other things, enable us to compete effectively in the market. Our industry and the markets for our games, however, are highly competitive, rapidly evolving, fragmented and subject to changing technology, shifting needs and frequent introductions of new games, development platforms and services. Successful execution of our strategy depends on our continuous ability to attract and retain players, expand the market for our games, convert inactive players into paying users, maintain a technological edge and offer new capabilities to players. In some cases, we compete against gaming operators who could expand their product lines to include more directly competitive games that could compete with our content. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources, and, in some cases, the ability to rapidly combine online platforms with full-time and temporary employees. Internationally, local competitors may have greater brand recognition than us in their local country and a stronger understanding of local culture and commerce. They may also offer their products and services in local languages we do not offer. Intellectual Property We consider our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, in the aggregate, material to our business. We endeavor to protect our investment in our intellectual property by seeking protection in the jurisdictions where we do business, as appropriate. We generally obtain trademark protection and often seek to register trademarks for the names and designs under which we market and license our games. As of December 31, 2024, we owned approximately 1,162 registered trademarks in the United States, and approximately 1,145 registered trademarks in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Additionally, many of the feature elements of our games, including game characters, are subject to copyright protection. In addition to the intellectual property that we own, we license certain intellectual property from third parties. For example, we license intellectual property related to our Caesars Slots and World Series of Poker games and have been granted an exclusive, worldwide and royalty-bearing license to certain intellectual property associated with World Series of Poker through September 23, 2031, and an exclusive, worldwide and royalty-bearing sublicense to certain trademarks and domain names associated with Caesars Slots through December 31, 2026. These licenses permit the development, design, manufacture, offering for sale, advertising, promotion, distribution, sale and use of Caesars Slots and World Series of Poker intellectual property in social and free-to-play games. More recently, in December 2024, we announced a license deal with IGT to license slot content for our slot-themed games. In addition, our newly acquired studio, SuperPlay, has entered into a licensed collaboration with Disney to create a new solitaire-themed game currently under development. We believe the value associated with our brands and the brands licensed under which we market and license our games contributes to the appeal and success of our games, and our future ability to develop, acquire or license new brand names of similar quality is important to our continued success. Therefore, we continue to invest in the recognition of our brands and the brands we license. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us alleging infringement of their proprietary rights or declaring their non-infringement of our intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other jurisdictions where our games are distributed. Further, we may be unable to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Intellectual Property. Government Regulation We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations that apply to companies operating online, including over the internet and mobile platforms, such as those relating to privacy, data security, consumer protection, protection of minors, online safety, advertising and marketing, intellectual property, competition, and taxation, among others, 13 all of which are continuously evolving and developing. As we offer our games in many countries worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim we are required to comply with local laws, including in jurisdictions where we have no local presence, offices, or other equipment. It is also likely that as our business grows and evolves and our games are played in a greater number of countries, we will become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. The scope and interpretation of the laws and regulations that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may conflict. Additional laws in these and other areas affecting our business are likely to be enacted in the future, which could limit or require changes to the ways in which we conduct our business and could both increase our compliance costs and decrease our revenues. If we become liable under additional laws or regulations, or we are not able to comply with these additional laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources, modify our games, or block users from a particular jurisdiction, each of which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Some of our games are based upon traditional casino games, such as slots and poker. We believe that our games and game features do not constitute gambling and are intended for entertainment purposes only. Our games do not offer an opportunity to win real money. However, there is significant opposition in some jurisdictions to social gaming, including social casino gaming, and some jurisdictions have expressed concern that social casino games, in particular, present significant risks of encouraging gambling behavior especially with respect to children and people who already have gambling problems. Anti-gaming groups in several states and countries have specifically targeted social casino games, which could lead these jurisdictions to adopt legislation or impose a regulatory framework to govern social gaming or social casino gaming specifically. For example, consumer protection laws such as Australias Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023, limit games containing simulated gambling features to adults 18 and over. These types of opposition efforts could lead to a prohibition on social gaming or social casino gaming altogether, restrict our ability to advertise our games or substantially increase our costs to comply with regulations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any such legislation or regulation or the extent to which they may affect our business. Furthermore, in 2020 and 2021 plaintiffs in several U.S. states sued Apple, Google and Meta Platform (Facebook), alleging that the platforms violated state gambling laws by allowing the plaintiffs to download and play social casino games, including certain of our social casino games. These lawsuits are still ongoing. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits and these lawsuits, or similar suits in the future, could cause Google, Apple, Facebook, or other third-party platform providers to deny our social casino games access to their platforms or the platforms could seek to pass on liability, including defense costs, for these suits to us under the indemnity provisions in our agreements with such platforms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In December 2023, the Company was informed that Google was beginning to enforce an existing Play Store policy banning simulated gambling apps in thirteen countries across the Middle East and Asia: Algeria, Iran, Jordan, Libya, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. As a result, Google blocked Slotomania and Caesars Slots in December 2023 and World Series of Poker in January 2024 from these countries. Similarly, in January 2024, Indonesias Ministry of Communication and Information Technology reported that it had conducted a broad sweep of online gambling content on the Google and Apple platforms including non-gambling games that contained gambling-related elements. Shortly thereafter, Slotomania was blocked from the Google Play Store in Indonesia, although it has since been reinstated. We were also notified in December 2024 by a third party platform that it would be challenging the offering of social casino games on its platform in the State of Washington. While we currently only offer certain poker-themed titles through this platform, our business and operating results could be materially impaired if other platforms take similar actions in the State of Washington or in other jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations due to limited revenues we currently have on the affected platform and in the affected jurisdictions, if our platform providers, particularly the iOS App Store, Facebook, of Google Play Store, take these actions in jurisdictions that are significant to our operations, it would be harmful to our business. Additionally, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit decided that a social casino game produced by one of our competitors should be considered illegal gambling under Washington state law. Similar lawsuits were filed against other defendants, including us. In April 2018, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against us in federal district court, alleging substantially the same causes of action against our social casino games. In August 2020, we entered into a settlement agreement to settle this matter, which was approved by the court in February 2021. High Five Games, a social casino game 14 company that was also sued in federal district court for substantially the same causes of action, opted to continue litigation rather than settle following the Ninth Circuits ruling. After several years of legal proceedings, in September 2024, a court ruled that two of High Five Games slot-themed games constituted illegal gambling under Washington law. As a result, the company was ordered to pay $24.9 million. More recently, in August 2024, a class action lawsuit was filed in the state of Washington against Dream Games, the developer of the mobile game "Royal Match" alleging that their game violates Washington State gambling laws and consumer protection laws. The case is currently proceeding in court. See Risk Factors Legal or regulatory restrictions could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations for more information. In January 2025, the WSGC issued a public memo referencing both the Ninth Circuit ruling and the High Five Games case. The memo warned that games of chance involving virtual currency are likely to be classified as illegal gambling under Washington law. It also encouraged companies offering virtual casino-style games to Washington residents to review their games and ensure compliance with state gambling regulation. Additional legal proceedings, including demands for arbitration, targeting our games and claiming violations of state, federal or foreign laws, including gambling laws, have occurred and could occur, based on the unique and particular laws of each jurisdiction, particularly as litigation and regulations continue to evolve. See Legal Proceedings and Risk FactorsLegal proceedings may materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition for more information. The widespread implementation of in-game purchases of virtual items and virtual currency in our industry has resulted in the expanded application of existing laws or regulations and has prompted calls for new laws and regulations to address the perceived problems with these virtual items and currency. Calls for legislation have been fueled by complaints from parents whose children have incurred sizeable charges online purchasing virtual currency, lives or power-ups in order to continue to play or further advance in games advertised as being free to play. In December 2022, Epic Games and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the FTC), announced a settlement, in which, among other things, Epic Games agreed to pay $245 million to the FTC relating to in-game purchases in Epic Games popular Fortnite game. This may result in legislation affecting how we advertise, operate, and earn revenues in games with these features. There has been an increasing focus on a mechanic widely used in the games industry know as paid loot boxes (and sometime also loot crates or mystery prizes). A paid loot box is a mechanic that provides a player with random in-game virtual items in exchange for real-world money or in-game virtual currency which itself has been purchased by real-world money. In most countries, it is now clear that loot boxes do not constitute gambling, because the items provided to a player have no real-world value. There are however a few exceptions one recent example being in Austria, where a court ruled that loot boxes in FIFA Ultimate Team packs, constitute illegal gambling due to the existence of a secondary market for these virtual items. In any event, the use of paid loot boxes can result in an increasing burden of regulatory compliance and operation restrictions as a result of consumer and advertising laws and regulations, the requirements of platform owners (such as Apple and Google), and the introduction of industry standards and practices, such as the Game Industry Promotion Act in South Korea and the California Bill A.B. 2426, or the guiding principles published by the UK government in 2023 (the UK Principles). Although the UK Principles are currently only expressed as a set of industry guidelines, if the industry does not implement them, it is possible that legislation will be adopted to enforce these or similar guidelines. It is also possible that the EU, as part of its fitness check of EU consumer laws, and other parts of the world adopt similar guidelines or legislation, and developments of this kind could further restrict our business or negatively affect our revenues. For additional information, please see the sections titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessChanges to digital platforms rules, including those relating to loot boxes, or the potential adoption of regulations or legislation impacting loot boxes, could require us to make changes to some of our games economies or design, which could negatively impact the monetization of these games reducing our revenues, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessLegal or regulatory restrictions could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations, and Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessLegal and regulatory restrictions on the use of incentivized marketing may negatively impact our business or results of operations. Data Privacy and Security We are an Israeli headquartered company with users around the globe. We collect, process, store, use, and share data, some of which contains personal information, in connection with operating our business. Consequently, our business is subject not 15 only to the Israeli Protection of Privacy Law, 5741-1981 (the PPL), and the Privacy Protection Regulations (Data Security), 5777-2017, but also to a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations governing data privacy and security, including with respect to the collection, processing, storage, use, transmission, sharing, and protection of personal information and other consumer data. Such laws and regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. The applicability of these laws and regulations to us, and their scope and interpretation, are often uncertain, particularly with respect to laws and regulations outside the United States. For example, the European Union has adopted strict data privacy and security regulations. The European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) imposes strict requirements on controllers and processors of personal data, including, for example, higher standards for obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, more robust disclosures to individuals and a strengthened individual data rights regime, and shortened timelines for data breach notifications. The GDPR created compliance obligations applicable to our business and some of our players, which could require us to self-determine how to interpret and implement these obligations, change our business practices and expose us to lawsuits (including class action or similar representative lawsuits) by consumers or consumer organizations for alleged breach of data protection laws. The GDPR increases financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual revenues for the preceding financial year or 20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious violations). The United Kingdom operates a separate but similar regime to the European Union that allows for fines of up to the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year. Further, we are required to comply with the GDPR and also the United Kingdom GDPR (UK GDPR), which, together with the amended United Kingdom Data Protection Act 2018, retains the GDPR in United Kingdom national law. There are currently a number of other proposals related to data privacy and security pending before several legislative and regulatory bodies in Europe. For example, the European Union is contemplating the adoption of the Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications, or the e-Privacy Regulation, which is currently making its way through the European Union legislative process. European Union countries may also have their own data protection laws in addition to the GDPR. Moreover, the scope of data privacy regulations worldwide continues to evolve. New, increasingly restrictive regulations are coming into force all around the world, such as in Australia (awaiting Royal ascent), China, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Brazil. Within the United States, California was the first state to enact comprehensive data privacy legislation via the California Consumer Privacy Act, or the CCPA and the California Privacy Rights Act, or the CPRA. The effects of the CCPA and CPRA were significant and required, and could continue to require, us to modify our data, security, and marketing practices and policies, and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an ongoing effort to comply with these and other applicable data protection laws. The CCPA was only the beginning of a trend toward stringent state privacy legislation in the United States. States such as Colorado, Delaware, Iowa, Florida, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon, Texas, Utah and Virginia have already enacted similar legislation to the CCPA, and other states including Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, Rhode Island and Tennessee have passed similar laws that are set to go into effect in the upcoming months and years. These laws could subject us to additional compliance costs as well as potential fines, individual claims and commercial liabilities. Globally there is significant focus on protecting children online and regulators worldwide such as the Information Commissioners Office in the U.K. and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the U.S. have reinforced this priority. Jurisdictions around the world have implemented comprehensive frameworks to protect young users in digital spaces with particular emphasis on the need for age assurance, content moderation standards, a greater awareness of dark patterns targeting children, and enhanced transparency requirements. The FTC proposed updates to the existing Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), and states have enacted their own laws and codes, focusing on consent requirements and limiting behavioral tracking and targeted advertising to minors. Federal bills like COPPA 2.0 and the Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA) have been proposed and aim to increase protections for minors' online data. In addition to evolving laws and codes, industry standards are evolving and advancing. This evolving area may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources for compliance programs, and impact business strategies and the availability of previously useful data. We are also subject to a variety of other laws in the United States and other non-U.S. jurisdictions regarding data privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection, which are continuously evolving and developing, including, among others, the laws described above, online safety regulations such as the EU Digital Services Act, the UK Online Safety Act, and the Australia 16 Online Safety Act, competition laws such as the EU Digital Markets Act, consumer protection laws such as the EUs New Deal for Consumers, whistleblowing laws, such as the EU Whistleblower Directive, and artificial intelligence regulations such as the EU Artificial Intelligence Act and the U.S. Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly laws outside the United States. It is also likely that as our business grows and evolves and our games are played in a greater number of countries, we will become subject to additional data privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources, modify our games, or block users from a particular jurisdiction, each of which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and results of operations. For additional information, please see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Information Technology and Data SecurityData privacy and security laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business could increase the cost of our operations and subject us to possible sanctions, civil lawsuits (including class action or similar representative lawsuits) and other penalties; such laws and regulations are continually evolving. Our or our platform and service providers actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. Human Capital As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 3,500 employees. We believe our people are one of our most important assets and our key competitive advantage. We rely on our highly skilled, technically trained and creative employees with desirable skill sets, including game designers, engineers and project managers, to develop new technologies and create innovative games. To win and keep our talented employees, we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, integrating, developing careers and retaining these employees. We are able to attract and retain top talent by creating a culture that challenges and engages our employees, offering them opportunities to learn, grow and achieve their multiple career goals and we encourage internal mobility aligned to our talents interests. Our managers and employees are asked to go through performance and development discussions twice a year, allowing us to identify and provide a range of tailor-made solutions to our Top-Talent population. We offer an array of career development services to our employees including instructor-led training, different online knowledge resources through our Playtika Academy program or external resources, and a full leadership development journey including mentoring opportunities. Further, we believe that our commitment to a culture of inclusion is integral to our goal of attracting and retaining the best talent and ultimately driving our business performance. We offer comprehensive compensation and benefits packages to our employees, including, for our U.S. employees, a 401(k) Plan, medical, dental and vision benefits, medical and dependent care flexible spending accounts, short-term and long-term disability insurance and life and accidental death disability insurance. Generally, our non-U.S. employees are eligible for welfare benefits, annual vacation leave, sick leave, convalescence pay, transportation expense reimbursement, advanced study funds, life and disability insurance and other customary or mandatory social benefits. We also offer stock-based compensation as a way to attract and retain key talent. See Note 13, Equity Transactions and Stock Incentive Plan, to our audited consolidated financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsStock-based compensation for further discussion of our benefit plans and stock-based compensation. 17 Website and Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at HaChoshlim St 8 Herzliya Pituach, Israel and our telephone number is 972-73-316-3251. Our website address is www.playtika.com. Through a link on the Investors section of our website, we make the following filings available free of charge and as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished with the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this filing. These filings are also available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties. Certain important factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, any of which could subsequently have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Summary of Risk Factors The risks more fully described below that relate to our business include, but are not limited to, the following important risks: actions of our majority shareholder or other third parties that influence us; we rely on third-party platforms, such as the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store, to distribute our games and collect revenues, and such platforms may adversely change their policies; a limited number of games generate a majority of our revenues; a small percentage of total users generate a majority of our revenues; our free-to-play business model, and the value of virtual items sold in our games, is highly dependent on how we manage the game revenues and pricing models; our inability to make acquisitions and/or integrate acquired businesses successfully could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations; our ability to compete in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry; our ability to retain existing players, attract new players and increase the monetization of our player base; we may be unable to successfully develop new games; our new games may not be successful after launch; we have significant indebtedness and are subject to obligations and restrictive covenants under our debt instruments; we are controlled by Yuzhu Shi, whose economic and other interests in our business may differ from yours; legal or regulatory restrictions or proceedings could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations; the impact of an economic recession or periods of increased inflation, and any reductions to household spending on the types of discretionary entertainment we offer; our international operations and ownership, including our significant operations in Israel, Ukraine and Belarus and the fact that our controlling stockholder is a Chinese-owned company; security breaches or other disruptions could compromise our information or the information of our players and expose us to liability; and our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information could adversely impact our business. 18 Risks Related to Our Business We rely on third-party platforms, such as the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store, to distribute our games and collect revenues generated on such platforms and rely on third-party payment service providers to collect revenues generated on our own platforms. Our games are primarily accessed and operated through platforms operated by Apple, Facebook and Google. A significant number of the virtual items that we sell to paying players are purchased using the payment processing systems of these platforms and, for the year ended December 31, 2024, 68.6% of our revenues were generated through the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store. Consequently, our expansion and prospects depend on our continued relationships with these providers, and any other emerging platform providers that are widely adopted by our target players. We are subject to the standard terms and conditions that these platform providers have for application developers, which govern the content, promotion, distribution, operation of games and other applications on their platforms, as well as the terms of the payment processing services provided by the platforms, and which the platform providers can change unilaterally on short or without notice. Our business would be harmed if: the platform providers discontinue or limit our access to their platforms; governments or private parties, such as internet providers, impose bandwidth restrictions or increase charges or restrict or prohibit access to those platforms; the platforms increase the fees they charge us; the platforms modify their algorithms, communication channels available to developers, respective terms of service or other policies; the platforms decline in popularity; the platforms adopt changes or updates to their technology that impede integration with other software systems or otherwise require us to modify our technology or update our games in order to ensure players can continue to access our games and content with ease; the platforms elect or are required to change how they label free-to-play games or take payment for in-game purchases; the platforms block or limit access to the genres of games that we provide in any jurisdiction; the platforms impose restrictions or spending caps or make it more difficult for players to make in-game purchases of virtual items; the platforms change how the personal information of players is made available to developers or develop or expand their own competitive offerings and/or practices; or we are unable to comply with the platform providers terms of service. If our platform providers do not perform their obligations in accordance with our platform agreements, we could be adversely impacted. For example, in the past, some of these platform providers have been unavailable for short periods of time, unexpectedly changed their terms or conditions, or experienced issues with their features that permit our players to purchase virtual items. Additionally, we rely on third-party online payment service providers to process any payments generated on games accessed and operated on our own Direct-to-Consumer platforms. If any of these third-party service providers is unable to process payments, even for a short period of time, our business would be harmed. These platforms and our third-party online payment service providers may also experience security breaches or other issues with their functionalities. In addition, if we do not adhere to the terms and conditions of our platform providers, the platform providers may take actions to limit the operations of, suspend or remove our games from the platform, and/or we may be exposed to liability or litigation. As jurisdictions in which we operate and their regulatory bodies adopt or modify laws and regulations, our platform providers may adopt restrictive policies or take other adverse action against the Company and its games in connection with their interpretation and implementation of such laws and regulations. For example, in December 2023, the Company was informed that Google was beginning to enforce an existing Play Store policy banning simulated gambling apps in thirteen countries across the Middle East and Asia: Algeria, Iran, Jordan, Libya, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. As a result, Google blocked Slotomania and Caesars Slots in December 2023 and World Series of Poker in January 2024 from these countries. Similarly, in January 2024, Indonesias Ministry of Communication and Information Technology reported that it had conducted a broad sweep of online gambling content on the Google and Apple platforms including non-gambling games that contained gambling-related elements. Shortly thereafter, 19 Slotomania was blocked from the Google Play Store in Indonesia, although it has since been reinstated. We were also notified in December 2024 by a third-party platform that it would be challenging the offering of social casino games on its platform in the State of Washington. While we currently only offer certain poker-themed titles through this platform, our business and operating results could be materially impaired if other platforms take similar actions in the State of Washington or in other jurisdictions. Although we are taking steps to oppose and try to reverse these types of actions and have not experienced a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations due to limited revenues we currently have on the affected platform or in the affected jurisdictions, if our platform providers, particularly the iOS App Store, Facebook, or Google Play Store, take these actions in jurisdictions that are significant to our operations, it would be harmful to our business. If any such events described above occur on a short-term or long-term basis, or if these third-party platforms and online payment service providers otherwise experience issues that impact the ability of players to download or access our games, access social features, or make in-game purchases, it would have a material adverse effect on our brands and reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of games have generated a majority of our revenues, and we may be unable to offset any declines in revenues from our top games. Our business is dependent on the success of a limited number of games and on our ability to consistently enhance and improve upon games that achieve significant popularity. Historically, we have depended on such games for a majority of our revenues and we expect that this dependency will continue for the foreseeable future. For example, in each of the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, our top two games by revenue, Slotomania and Bingo Blitz, collectively generated approximately 45% and 46% of our revenues for each period, respectively. For a game to remain popular and to retain players, we must effectively enhance, expand and upgrade the game with new features, offers, and content that players find attractive. We may not be successful in these efforts, including not providing enough new features, offers and content or providing too many new features, offers and content. Each of our games requires significant product development, marketing and other resources to develop, launch and sustain popularity through regular upgrades, expansions and new content, and such costs on average have increased over time. Even with these investments, we may experience sudden declines in the popularity of any of our games and fluctuations in the number of daily average users and monthly average users. For example, revenues generated by Slotomania declined by approximately 9.5% in 2024 and 9.0% in 2023. A continued decline in Slotomania or a similar decline in any of our other top games would negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to attract and retain a significant number of new and existing players to our games or if we experience a reduction in the number of players of our most popular games or any other adverse developments relating to our most popular games occur, our market share and reputation could be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our average daily active users across our portfolio have declined by approximately 6.9% in 2024 and 7.4% in 2023. While the Company endeavors to attract and retain new and existing players, including by way of acquiring new titles and studios, we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. Shifts in the revenue mix between our games may adversely affect our margin profile. Historically, our social casino games have generated higher margins than our casual games, primarily due to the higher utilization of our Direct-to-Consumer platforms among social casino game users compared to our casual game users. In addition, our recent casual game acquisitions, most notably SuperPlay Ltd., are earlier stage studios where the strategic focus is on growth over profitability. As revenues from our social casino games such as Slotomania have either declined or failed to keep pace with revenues from our existing and newly acquired casual games, our Credit Adjusted EBITDA margin and net income margin have declined. Our Credit Adjusted EBITDA margin declined from 32.4% in 2023 to 29.7% in 2024 and our net income margin declined from 9.2% in 2023 to 6.4% in 2024. If our revenue mix continues to shift toward casual games and we are unable to mitigate the discrepancy in margin profiles, our Credit Adjusted EBITDA margin and net income margin could continue to decline. Furthermore, our strategy includes acquiring early-stage companies that may be primarily focused on growth rather than profitability. These early-stage acquisitions, while potentially offering long-term growth opportunities, often contribute at 20 least initially to lower margins with high levels of marketing and other operational costs relative to their revenues. Continued investment in early-stage companies may compound the downward pressure on our margin profile if our revenue mix continues to trend toward casual games. A small percentage of total users have generated a majority of our revenues, and we may be unable to attract new paying or retain existing paying users and maintain their spending levels. Revenues of free-to-play games typically rely on a small percentage of players who spend moderate or large amounts of money in games to receive special advantages, levels, access and other features, offers, or content. The vast majority of users play for free or only occasionally spend money in games. As a result, compared to all users who play our games in any period, only a small percentage of such users were paying users. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2024, our average Daily Payer Conversion was 3.8%. In addition, a large percentage of our revenues comes from a small subset of these paying users. Because many users do not generate revenues, and each paying user does not generate an equal amount of revenues, it is particularly important for us to retain the small percentage of paying users and to maintain or increase their spending levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to retain paying users or that paying users will maintain or increase their spending. It is possible that we could lose more paying users than we gain in the future, which would cause a decrease in the monetization of our games and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We invest in new user acquisition and on monetization strategies to convert users to paying users, retain our existing paying users and maintain or increase the spending levels of our paying users. As competition for user attention and acquisition intensifies and privacy rules impacting these activities continue to evolve, the effectiveness of our user acquisition activities may go down, and the cost of those activities may increase. If our investments on new user acquisition and monetization strategies do not produce the desired results, we may fail to attract, retain or monetize users and may experience a decrease in spending levels of existing paying users, any of which would result in lower revenues for our games and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the key factors in attracting and retaining paying users include our ability to enhance existing games and game experiences in ways which are specifically appealing to paying users. These abilities are subject to various uncertainties, including but not limited to: our ability to provide an enhanced experience for paying users without adversely affecting the gameplay experience for non-paying users; our ability to continually anticipate and respond to changing user interests and preferences generally and to changes in the gaming industry; our ability to introduce effective amounts of new content to our players; our ability to compete successfully against a large and growing number of industry participants with essentially no barriers to entry; our ability to hire, integrate and retain skilled personnel; our ability to increase penetration in, and enter into new, demographic markets; our ability to achieve a positive return on our user acquisition and other marketing investments and to drive organic growth; and our ability to minimize and quickly resolve bugs or outages. Some of our users also depend on our customer support organization to answer questions relating to our games. Our ability to provide high-quality effective customer support is largely dependent on our ability to attract, resource, and retain employees who are not only qualified to support our users, but are also well versed in our games. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell virtual items within our games to existing and prospective users. If we are unable to attract and retain users, especially paying users, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 We utilize a free-to-play business model, which depends on players making optional in-game purchases, and the value of the virtual items sold in our games is highly dependent on how we manage the game revenues and pricing models. Our games are available to players for free, and we generate nearly all of our revenues from the sale of virtual items when players make voluntary in-game purchases. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we derived 98.4% of our revenues from in-game purchases. Paying users usually spend money in our games because of the perceived value of the virtual items that we offer for purchase. The perceived value of these virtual items can be impacted by various actions that we take in the games, such as offering discounts, giving away virtual items in promotions or providing easier non-paid means to secure such virtual items. If we fail to manage our game economies properly, players may be less likely to spend money in the games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unrelated third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, cheats or guides that enable players to advance in our games or result in other types of malfunction, which could reduce the demand for in-game virtual items. In particular, for our games where players play against each other, such as our World Series of Poker game, there is a higher risk that these cheats will enable players to obtain unfair advantages over those players who play fairly, and harm the experience of those players. Additionally, these unrelated third parties may attempt to scam our players with fake offers for virtual items or other game benefits. We have also seen unauthorized third-party apps that serve as cheat guides for games such as Bingo Blitz which may be used by players to compromise or impair our game economies. These scams may harm the experience of our players, disrupt the economies of our games and reduce the demand for our virtual items, which may result in increased costs to combat such programs and scams, a loss of revenues from the sale of virtual items and a loss of players. As a result, players may have a negative gaming experience and be less likely to spend money in the games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to make acquisitions and integrate any acquired businesses successfully could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations. Historically, a significant portion of our growth has been as a result of our acquisition of complementary studios and games, rather than in-house development, including our acquisition of Wooga GmbH, or Wooga, in 2018, Supertreat GmbH, or Supertreat, in 2019, Seriously Holding Corp., or Seriously, in 2019, Reworks Oy, or Reworks, in 2021, JustPlay.LOL, or JustPlay, in 2022, the Youda Games card game portfolio in 2023, G.S InnPlay Labs Ltd. in 2023, and our largest acquisition to date, SuperPlay Ltd. in 2024. While we anticipate that acquisitions will continue to be an important source of growth in the future, our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon our ability to identify quality games, applications and businesses and complete commercially viable acquisitions. We cannot assure you that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to successfully grow through these types of transactions also depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses, technologies and products and to obtain any necessary financing, and is subject to numerous risks, including: failure to identify acquisition, investment or other strategic alliance opportunities that we deem suitable or available on favorable terms; problems integrating acquired businesses, technologies or products, including issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; unsuccessful efforts to expand and unanticipated challenges in entering into new categories of games and applications, including design entertainment and home design; problems properly valuing prospective acquisitions, particularly those with limited operating histories; failure to fully identify potential risks and liabilities associated with acquired businesses; unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; adverse impacts on our overall margins, particularly with respect to acquisitions of earlier stage companies where the strategic focus is on growth over profitability; diversion of managements attention from the day-to-day operations of our existing business; potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and increased legal and accounting compliance costs. 22 In addition, the expected cost synergies associated with such acquisitions may not be fully realized in the anticipated amounts or within the contemplated timeframes, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We would expect to incur incremental costs and capital expenditures related to integration activities. Acquisition transactions may also disrupt our ongoing business, as the integration of acquisitions would require significant time and focus from management and might delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. If we are unable to identify suitable target businesses, technologies or products, or if we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, technologies and products effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to adequately supplement any such inability to successfully acquire and integrate with organic growth. Also, while we employ several different methodologies to assess potential business opportunities, the businesses we may acquire may not meet or exceed our expectations. For example, our recently acquired studio, SuperPlay Ltd., has a history of incurring net losses as it is in its early stages and is prioritizing increased revenue and growth in the business. SuperPlay Ltd., incurred net losses of $114 million in 2024. If revenue growth at SuperPlay Ltd. does not increase enough to offset costs, including marketing expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete. The mobile gaming industry is a rapidly evolving industry with low barriers to entry, and we expect more companies to enter the industry and a wider range of competing games to be introduced. As a result, we are dependent on our ability to successfully compete against a large and growing number of industry participants. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources. In particular, certain competitors of our social casino slot games also provide real money gambling offerings which may give them an advantage in recognizable slot content. Internationally, local competitors may have greater brand recognition than us in their local country and a stronger understanding of local culture and commerce. They may also offer their products and services in local languages we do not offer. In addition, the market for our games is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent launches of new games and enhancements to current games, changes in player needs and behavior, disruption by innovative entrants and evolving business models and industry standards. As a result, our industry is constantly changing games and business models in order to adopt and optimize new technologies, increase cost efficiency and adapt to player preferences. Our competitors may adapt to an emerging technology or business model more quickly or effectively, developing products and games or business models that are technologically superior to ours, more appealing to consumers, or both. The emergence of sweepstake casino games which mimic social casino games but incorporate sweepstakes as a primary user acquisition and monetization tool in the game could pose a competitive threat to our social casino games and harm our results of operations. Potential new competitors could have significant resources for developing, enhancing or acquiring games and gaming companies, and may also be able to incorporate their own strong brands and assets into their games or distribution of their games. We also face competition from a vast number of small companies and individuals who may be successful in creating and launching games and other content for these devices and platforms using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. New game developers enter the gaming market continuously, some of which experience significant success in a short period of time. A significant number of new titles are introduced each day. In addition, obtaining and maintaining high ratings of our games on the platforms on which we operate are important as they help drive users to find our games. If the ratings of any of our games decline or if we receive significant negative reviews that result in a decrease in our ratings, our games could be more difficult for players to find or recommend. In addition, we may be subject to negative review campaigns or defamation campaigns intended to harm our ratings. Any such decline may lead to loss of users and revenues, additional advertising and marketing costs, and reputation harm. Additionally, if our platform providers were to develop competitive offerings, either on their own or in cooperation with one or more competitors, our growth prospects could be negatively impacted. For example, Apple developed its own video game subscription service, Apple Arcade, which may compete further with our games. Netflix, a relatively new entrant in the 23 gaming market, has expanded its offerings by including a growing library of mobile games as part of its subscription service. With its expansive customer base and vast resources, Netflix could pose a material competitive threat to the Companys business. Increased competition and success of other brands, genres, business models and games could result in, among other things, a loss of players, or negatively impact our ability to acquire new players cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others, including our current or future business partners or third-party software providers. By doing so, these competitors may increase their scale, their ability to meet the needs of existing or prospective players and compete for similar human resources. If we are unable to compete effectively, successfully and at a reasonable cost against our existing and future competitors, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or to fund our operations, expose us to interest rate risk, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy, and prevent us from making debt service payments. In addition, we are subject to obligations and restrictive covenants under our debt instruments that may impair our ability to operate or with which we may not be able to maintain compliance. We are a highly leveraged company. In March 2021, we entered into a $1,900.0 million senior secured first lien term loan, which we refer to herein as the Term Loan. We also issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.250% senior notes due 2029 (our Notes) in a private offering pursuant to an indenture dated March 11, 2021 (the Indenture). As of December 31, 2024, we had $2,428.8 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, in addition to $600.0 million available for borrowing under a $600.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which we refer to herein as the Revolving Credit Facility. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we made net principal payments of $23.8 million and paid $146.6 million for interest (net of hedges). The Credit Facilities were provided pursuant to a credit agreement, which we refer to herein as the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2019 and amended on March 11, 2021, by and among us, the lenders party thereto and UBS AG, Stamford Branch (as successor in interest to Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch), as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the other parties thereto, as amended. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to, the following: limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, research and development, strategic initiatives or other purposes; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, financial covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and that, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic industry and competitive conditions; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities, introducing new technologies, or exploiting business opportunities; potentially limit the amount of net interest expense that we and our subsidiaries can use in the future as a deduction against taxable income under applicable tax laws; cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments or dispose of assets; limit our ability to repurchase shares and pay cash dividends; and expose us to the risk of increased interest rates. 24 In addition, our Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant applicable to the Revolving Credit Facility thereunder, and our Credit Agreement and the Indenture each contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, including our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt under certain circumstances; create or incur certain liens or permit them to exist; enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions; make certain investments and acquisitions; consolidate, merge or otherwise transfer, sell or dispose of our assets; pay dividends, repurchase stock and make other certain restricted payments; or enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness. In the event of such default, the lenders under our Credit Agreement could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and both the lenders under our Credit Agreement and the trustee under the Notes could institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement and the Indenture. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks described above could intensify. Additionally, the Term Loan matures in March 2028, the Revolving Credit Facility matures in March 2026 and the Notes mature in March 2029. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Credit Agreement or from new indebtedness in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay or refinance our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. For example, in connection with the acquisition of SuperPlay, Ltd., the Company agreed to make future earnout payments of up to $1.250 billion, in the aggregate, based on the achievement of certain gross revenue growth and Adjusted EBITDA targets during the calendar years 2025, 2026 and 2027, in each case, payable following the end of the applicable measurement period. Depending on the level of earnout achievement, if the earnout payments dramatically exceed our estimates of such payments, it is possible that the Companys cash flows and available cash will be insufficient to fund these obligations, particularly if we are unable to refinance the Revolving Credit Facility before it matures in March 2026. Accordingly, we expect that we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness at comparable interest rates, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If such refinancing indebtedness is not available at interest rates comparable to our existing indebtedness our interest expense could materially increase, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. If we cannot timely refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as issuing additional equity and reducing, delaying or foregoing capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be implemented on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to successfully attract in-game advertisers depends on our ability to design an attractive advertising model that retains players. While the vast majority of our revenues are generated by in-game purchases, a portion of our revenues are generated from the sale of in-game advertisements. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we derived 1.6% of our revenues from in-game advertising. If we are unable to attract and maintain a sufficient player base or otherwise fail to offer attractive in-game advertising models, advertisers may not be interested in purchasing such advertisements in our games, which could adversely affect our revenues from in-game advertising. Alternatively, if our advertising inventory is unavailable and the demand exceeds the supply, this limits our ability to generate further revenues from in-game advertising, particularly during peak hours and in key geographies. Further, a full inventory may divert advertisers from seeking to obtain advertising inventory from us in the future, and thus deprive us of potential future in-game advertising revenues. This could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 In addition, if we include in-game advertising in our games that players view as excessive, such advertising may materially detract from players gaming experiences, thereby creating player dissatisfaction, which may cause us to lose players and revenues, and negatively affect the in-game experience for players making purchases of virtual items in our games. Changes to digital platforms rules, including those relating to loot boxes, or the potential adoption of regulations or legislation impacting loot boxes, could require us to make changes to some of our games economies or design, which could negatively impact the monetization of these games reducing our revenues. Apples and Googles terms of service require publishers of applications that include loot boxes to disclose the odds of receiving each type of item within each loot box to customers prior to purchase. Loot boxes are a commonly used monetization technique in free-to-play mobile games in which a player can acquire a virtual loot box, but the player does not know which virtual item(s) he or she will receive (which may be a common, rare or extremely rare item, and may be a duplicate of an item the player already has in his or her inventory) until the loot box is opened. The player will always receive one or more virtual items when he or she opens the loot box. Each of Apple, Google and Facebook are defendants in class action lawsuits alleging, among other things, that social casino games offered through their respective platforms constitute illegal gambling and in addition to seeking monetary damages, the plaintiffs are also seeking that the platforms remove access to the social casino games. These litigations are still ongoing. In the event that Apple, Google, Facebook or any of our other platform providers changes its developer terms of service to include more onerous requirements or if any of our platform providers were to prohibit the use of loot boxes in games distributed on its digital platform, we would be required to redesign the economies of the affected games in order to continue distribution on the impacted platforms, which would likely cause a decline in the revenues generated from these games and require us to incur additional costs. In addition, there are numerous ongoing academic, political and regulatory discussions in the United States, Europe, Australia and other jurisdictions regarding whether certain game mechanics, such as loot boxes, should be subject to a higher level or different type of regulation than other game genres or mechanics to protect consumers, in particular minors and persons susceptible to addiction, and, if so, what such regulation should include. Additionally, loot box game mechanics continue to be the subject of increased focus since the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, released a staff perspective highlighting issues raised at a public workshop on loot boxes, which encouraged the industry to continue efforts to provide clear and meaningful information to consumers about in-game loot box and related microtransactions. The FTC continues to monitor developments surrounding loot boxes and may take steps to prevent what it views as unfair or deceptive practices. For example, the FTC recently announced a major enforcement action against a game developer for the sale of loot boxes to children and teens without verifiable parental consent. The complaint was settled with the developer having to, among other things, agree to enter into a ten-year compliance monitoring program and pay a fine of $20 million. Previously, the United Kingdoms Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport launched a call for evidence into the impact of loot boxes on in-game spending and gambling-like behavior in connection with the UK governments review of the 2005 Gambling Act (the principal gambling regulation in the United Kingdom), and politicians have cited loot boxes as an example of recent technology innovation where government regulation is needed. Subsequently, the UK government issued a conclusion to the call for evidence and while it did not call for paid loot boxes to be deemed gambling, it called for companies within the industry to engage in self-regulation, including taking actions to protect children and their ability to access and purchase loot boxes. As a result, the trade body, UK Interactive Entertainment, published industry guiding principles on loot boxes which were designed to address the concerns raised by the government. Similar activity relating to loot boxes has also occurred elsewhere in the EU. For instance, the Dutch courts initially ruled FIFA loot boxes violated gambling laws, but the highest court overturned the ruling in 2022. Since 2023, the Dutch Minister of Economic Affairs has pushed for an EU-wide ban on loot boxes, reaffirming in 2024 his intent to include it in the Digital Fairness Act. The Digital Fairness Act will focus on strengthening consumer protections including in regard to the use of dark patterns with the first set of proposals under the Act expected to be released by end of 2025 or early 2026. In February 2023, an Austrian court ruled that loot boxes in FIFA Ultimate Team packs constitute illegal gambling due to the existence of a secondary market for these virtual items. The court deemed this secondary market activity as giving the loot boxes a financial value, in combination with these randomized reward mechanisms, fulfilling a key criterion for gambling under the Austrian law. 26 It is possible that other courts or regulatory agencies could adopt similarly broad definitions of prize, as has been the case in Belgium. See BusinessGovernment Regulation. In Australia, the Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023 limit games containing simulated gambling features to adults 18 and over, and require games that do not contain simulated gambling, but which contain loot boxes, to be rated M (Mature), meaning they are only suitable for players aged 15 and over. For legislation regarding protection of minors, see Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Information Technology and Data Security. Data privacy and security laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business continue to increase the cost of our operations and could subject us to possible sanctions, civil lawsuits (including class action or similar representative lawsuits) and other penalties; such laws and regulations are continually evolving. Our platform and service providers actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could also harm our business. In some of our games, certain mechanics may be deemed to be loot boxes. Various jurisdictions have established regulations regarding these mechanics. For instance, the UK Principles, and South Korea's Game Industry Promotion Act, mandate that we disclose the odds and the presence of loot boxes in our games. New regulations by the FTC, U.S. states or other international jurisdictions, which may vary significantly across jurisdictions and which we may be required to comply with, could require that these game mechanics be modified or removed from games, increase the costs of operating our games due to disclosure or other regulatory requirements, impact player engagement and monetization, or otherwise harm our business performance. It is difficult to predict how existing or new laws may be applied to these or similar game mechanics. If we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to modify our games, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Legal or regulatory restrictions could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations. There is significant opposition in some jurisdictions to social gaming, including social casino games. The World Health Organization includes gaming disorder as an International Classification of Diseases, defining the disorder as a pattern of behavior characterized by impaired control over gaming and an increase in the priority of gaming over other interests and daily activities. Some states or countries have anti-gaming groups that specifically target social casino games. Such opposition could lead these jurisdictions to adopt legislation or impose a regulatory framework to govern interactive social gaming or social casino games specifically. These could result in a prohibition on interactive social gaming or social casino games altogether, restrict our ability to advertise our games, or substantially increase our costs to comply with these regulations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any such legislation or regulation or the extent to which they may affect our business. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit decided that a social casino game produced by one of our competitors should be considered illegal gambling under Washington state law. Similar lawsuits and arbitration proceedings have been filed against other defendants, including us. For example, in April 2018, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in federal district court alleging substantially the same causes of action against our social casino games. In August 2020, we entered into a settlement agreement to settle this matter, which was approved by the court in February 2021. High Five Games, a social casino game company that was also sued in federal district court for substantially the same causes of action, opted to continue litigation rather than settle following the Ninth Circuits ruling. After several years of legal proceedings, in September 2024, a court ruled that two of High Five Games slot-themed games constituted illegal gambling under Washington law. As a result, the company was ordered to pay $24.9 million in February 2025. In January 2025, the Washington State Gambling Commission (WSGC) issued a public memo referencing both the Ninth Circuit ruling and the High Five Games case. The memo warned that games of chance involving virtual currency are likely to be classified as illegal gambling under Washington law. It also encouraged companies offering virtual casino-style games to Washington residents to review their games and ensure compliance with state gambling regulations. In addition, on May 17, 2022, a motion for approval of a class action lawsuit was filed in district court in Tel Aviv-Jaffa Israel against Playtika Group Israel Ltd. (PGI) alleging that certain of the Companys slot, poker and solitaire-themed games constitute illegal gambling and are misleading under Israeli consumer protection laws, seeking damages of NIS 50 million. In 27 the United States, two lawsuits were filed against us in 2023 in Alabama and Tennessee and one lawsuit was filed against us in 2024 in Kentucky, all alleging that our social casino-themed games constitute illegal gambling under applicable state laws and seeking to recover amounts paid by the residents of the applicable state in connection with such games. In addition, we received seven demands for arbitration in late 2022 and early 2023 and two demands for mass arbitration in 2024, all alleging, among other things, that our games constitute illegal gambling under applicable state law. See Legal proceedings may materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and BusinessLegal Proceedings. In 2018, sixteen gambling regulators signed a declaration expressing concern over the blurring of lines between gambling and video game products, including social casino gaming. The regulators committed to work together to analyze the characteristics of video games and social gaming, and to engage in an informed dialogue with the video game and social gaming industries to ensure the appropriate and efficient implementation of applicable laws and regulations. The regulators also indicated they would work closely with their consumer protection enforcement agencies. In 2019, the regulators presented their conclusions and encouraged national consumer protection authorities to continue to be involved in the debate over the blurring of lines between gambling and video game products, while recognizing that ultimately whether these activities trigger the implementation of gambling regulation would depend on each nations gambling definition. Many other similar cases have been filed in the United States related to allegations regarding legality of loot boxes and purported gambling within video games products. For example, since 2020, there have been many cases filed against social casino game developers, or our third-party platform providers, alleging that social casino games violate various states gambling laws, including cases in California, Washington, Mississippi, Alabama, Connecticut, Georgia, New York, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio and New Mexico. More recently, in August 2024, a class action complaint was filed in the State of Washington against Dream Games, the developer of the mobile game Royal Match, alleging that its game violates Washington State gambling laws and consumer protection laws. Generally, in the past, illegal gambling lawsuits in the games industry have focused on certain genres such as slots, poker, bingo, and card games. The inclusion of a Match 3 puzzle game such as Royal Match in these legal actions represents an expansion of these types of cases and, if this expansion continues, could materially adversely impact our casual games and our results of operations. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any actions taken by any regulatory body, nor can we predict the outcome of any litigation arising, as a result of any such action. Consumer protection concerns regarding games such as ours have been raised in the past and may again be raised in the future. These concerns include: (i) whether social casino games may be shown to serve as a gateway for adolescents to real money gambling; (ii) methods to limit the ability of children to make in-game purchases, and (iii) a concern that mobile game companies are using big data and advanced technology to predict and target vulnerable users who may spend significant time and money on mobile games in lieu of other activities. This has resulted in governmental action against another gaming company. In December 2022, Epic Games and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, announced a settlement, in which Epic Games agreed to pay a $245 million to the FTC relating to in-game purchases in Epic Games popular Fortnite game. Such concerns could lead to increased scrutiny over the manner in which our games are designed, developed, distributed and presented. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or scope of any of these concerns reaching a level that will impact our business, or whether we would suffer any adverse impacts to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations or applications of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices, have restricted, and may continue to restrict, our games, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters relating to our business, including, among others, online safety regulations such as the EU Digital Services Act, requiring a yearly transparency report, the UK Online Safety Act, requiring all in scope services to complete, at least once a year, a number of risk assessments, and the Australia Online Safety Act, competition laws such as the EU Digital Markets Act, consumer protection laws such as Australias Guidelines for the Classification of Computer Games 2023, the EUs New Deal for Consumers, EUs Digital Fairness Act, advertising laws such as the UKs CAP Code and whistleblowing laws, such as the EU Whistleblower Directive, and 28 artificial intelligence regulations such as the EU Artificial Intelligence Act and the U.S. Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of new compliance obligations. Legal and regulatory restrictions on the use of incentivized marketing may negatively impact our business or results of operations. Within the mobile games industry there has been an increase in recent years in the use of a user acquisition channel called incentivized marketing. Incentivized marketing offers generally involve third-party marketing companies promoting mobile games and offering an incentive to the players, such as gift cards or real money or in-app currency, for certain actions, such as downloading a game, completing consumer surveys or reaching certain milestones in a game. We have recently increased the use of incentivized marketing and, in 2024, this channel accounted for over fifty percent of the user acquisition activity within certain of our games. Incentivized marketing is also used heavily by our recently acquired subsidiary, SuperPlay Ltd. While we believe our use of incentivized marketing to be a legally permissible promotional activity, if the use of incentivized marketing were deemed to affect the legality of our games, we may be required to restructure our marketing activities in a manner that could impair our revenues or reduce the effectiveness of our marketing expenses. We may also be subject to enforcement actions by federal or state regulators, as well as private litigation, which could materially affect our business and results of operations. Legal proceedings may materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have been party to, are currently party to, and in the future may become subject to additional legal proceedings in the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, with respect to consumer protection, gambling-related matters, securities laws matters, employee matters, alleged service and system malfunctions, alleged intellectual property infringement and claims relating to our contracts, licenses and strategic investments. See BusinessLegal Proceedings. Any litigation could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, our games may be implicated in lawsuits where we are not the named defendants. For example, plaintiffs in several U.S. states have previously sued Apple and/or Google alleging that the platforms violated state gambling laws by allowing the plaintiffs to download and play social casino games, including certain of our social casino games. The issue continues to be litigated and these lawsuits, or similar suits in the future, could cause Google, Apple, or other third-party platform providers to deny our social casino games access to their platforms or the platforms could seek to pass on liability, including defense costs, for these suits to us under the indemnity provisions in our agreements with such platforms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Additional legal proceedings targeting our games and claiming violations of state, federal or foreign laws could occur, based on the unique and particular laws of each jurisdiction, particularly as litigation claims and regulations continue to evolve. We cannot predict the outcome of any legal proceedings to which we may be a party, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We rely on a limited number of geographies for a significant portion of our revenues. Although we have players across the globe, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of countries and are dependent on access to those markets. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2024, 66.7% of our revenues were derived from users located in the United States and 94.5% from users located in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia. Our ability to retain paying players depends on our success in these geographies, and if we were to lose access to these markets or experience a decline in players in these geographies for any reason, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 If general economic conditions decline, demand for our games could decline. In addition, our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and to other factors that adversely affect the gaming industry, which could negatively impact our business. In-game purchases involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of games and services like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result, our games may be sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could result in an increase in our marketing and promotional expenses, in an effort to offset that reduction, and could negatively impact our business. Discretionary spending on entertainment activities could further decline for reasons beyond our control, such as natural disasters, acts of war, pandemics, terrorism, transportation disruptions, climate change or the results of adverse weather conditions. Additionally, disposable income available for discretionary spending may be reduced by unemployment, higher housing, energy, interest, or other costs, or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates, or other economic disruptions. Moreover, during periods of increased inflation, such as the one that began in mid-2021, rising costs for essentials like gasoline, home heating and cooling fuels, housing and groceries, are likely to reduce household spending on the types of discretionary entertainment we offer and may limit our ability to forecast future demand for our games. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending on entertainment activities could result in reduced play levels and decreased spending on our games, and could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Companys total revenues declined by 0.7% during 2024, with revenues from our social casino games portfolio declining by 5.6%. In particular, total revenues from Slotomania declined by 9.5% during 2024 which we believe to have underperformed other top social casino games over the same period. If the larger mobile games industry or other subsets of that industry in which we operate, such as social casino games, decline or continue to decline and our revenues decline or continue to decline faster than the industry, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power losses, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. We have in the past and may continue to experience disruption as a result of catastrophic events. For example, we previously maintained offices in Crimea, but were forced to close and relocate our personnel in Crimea as a result of Crimeas annexation by Russia in 2014. In addition, we previously maintained a development center in Belarus but decided to close and relocate our personnel in Belarus due to the challenging operating environment caused by sanctions and export controls that resulted from the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Additionally, our primary offices are located in Israel and we have a large office in Ukraine, and are therefore subject to a heightened risk of military and political instability. For more information on risks related to our operations in Israel, see We have offices and other significant operations located in Israel, and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel, including the ongoing war in Israel. For more information on risks related to our operations in Ukraine, see Our operations may be adversely affected by ongoing developments in Belarus, Ukraine, Georgia or Romania. In the occurrence of a catastrophic event, including a global pandemic like the COVID-19 pandemic or the consequences of climate change, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in application development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, such as player, customer and billing data as well as intellectual property rights, software versions or other relevant data regarding operations, and there can be no assurances that our insurance policies will be sufficient to compensate us for any resulting losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We primarily rely on skilled employees with creative and technical backgrounds. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees in the future, or any labor disputes, could significantly harm our business. We primarily rely on our highly skilled, technically trained and creative employees to develop new technologies and create innovative content for our games. Such employees, particularly game designers, engineers and project managers with desirable skill sets are in high demand, and we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, training, successfully integrating and retaining these employees. We have historically hired a number of key personnel through acquisitions, and as 30 competition with several other game companies increases, we may incur significant expenses in continuing this practice. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional skilled employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and expensive and cause additional disruptions to our business. In addition, the Company has experienced several rounds of layoffs in the recent past which could negatively affect its reputation and its ability to recruit new employees in the future. Any future layoffs could similarly harm the Companys reputation and hinder its recruitment efforts. We are highly dependent on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including, in particular Robert Antokol, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson of our board of directors, and our other executive officers and senior management team. In particular, Mr. Antokol oversees our company and provides leadership for our growth and business strategy. Moreover, our success is highly dependent on the abilities of Mr. Antokols decision making process with regards to the day-to-day and ongoing needs of our business, as well as his understanding of our company as the co-founder of Playtika. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Antokol, the agreement has no specific duration and he can terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain agreed notice periods and post-termination restrictive covenants. We do not maintain key-man insurance for Mr. Antokol or any other executive officer or member of our senior management team. In May 2024, as part of a restructuring of the Companys management structure, we eliminated the chief revenue officer and chief operating officer positions and replaced our chief technology officer. Although these changes were made to improve the Companys performance, it is possible that the change to the makeup of the management team and the loss of three individuals with long tenures at the Company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our games are created, developed, enhanced and supported in our in-house game studios. The loss of key game studio personnel, including members of management as well as key engineering, game development, artists, product, marketing and sales personnel, could disrupt our current games, delay new game development or game enhancements, and decrease player retention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Additionally, a significant portion of our key roles are based in Israel. The mobile games industry in Israel is relatively small, leading to high competition for skilled professionals. We cannot guarantee we can consistently attract the necessary personnel to maintain our competitive position. In particular, we expect to face significant competition from other companies in hiring such personnel, which may force us to seek and recruit well-qualified staff in multiple international jurisdictions. Furthermore, our competitors may lure away our existing personnel by offering them employment terms that our personnel view as more favorable. As we mature, the incentives to attract, retain and motivate our staff provided by our equity awards or by future arrangements, such as through cash bonuses, may not be as effective as in the past. In addition, disputes with employees or works council or other campaigns involving our employees could adversely affect our business. If we do not succeed in attracting, hiring and integrating excellent personnel, or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. We track certain performance metrics with internal and third-party tools and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of our performance metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. We track certain performance metrics, including the number of active and paying players of our games using a combination of internal and third-party analytics tools, including such tools provided by Apple, Facebook and Google. Our performance metrics tools have a number of limitations (including limitations placed on third-party tools, which are subject to change unilaterally by the relevant third parties) and our methodologies for tracking these metrics or access to these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we report. If the internal or external tools we use to track these metrics undercount or over-count performance or contain technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate, and we may not be able to detect such inaccuracies, particularly with respect to third-party analytics tools. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data (or how third parties present that data to us) may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. We also may not have access to comparable quality data for games we acquire with respect to periods before integration, which may 31 impact our ability to rely on such data. Furthermore, such limitations or errors could cause players, analysts or business partners to view our performance metrics as unreliable or inaccurate. If our performance metrics are not accurate representations of our business, player base or traffic levels, if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics or if the metrics we rely on to track our performance do not provide an accurate measurement of our business or otherwise change, our reputation may be harmed and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to collect and use data to deliver relevant content and advertisements, and any limitation on the collection and use of this data could cause us to lose revenues. When our players use our games, we may collect both personally identifiable and non-personally identifiable data about the player. Often, we use some of this data to provide a better experience for the player by delivering relevant content and advertisements. Our players may decide not to allow us to collect some or all of this data or may limit our use of this data. Any limitation on our ability to collect data about players and game interactions would likely make it more difficult for us to deliver targeted content and advertisements to our players as well as the overall gaming experience. Interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection, analysis and storage systems, as well as privacy concerns and regulatory restrictions regarding the collection of data, could also limit our ability to aggregate and analyze player data. If that happens, we may not be able to successfully adapt to player preferences to improve and enhance our games, retain existing players and maintain the popularity of our games, which could cause our business, financial condition, or results of operations to suffer. Additionally, Internet-connected devices and operating systems controlled by third parties increasingly contain features that allow device users to disable functionality that allows for the delivery of advertising on their devices, including through Apples Identifier for Advertising, or IDFA, or Googles Advertising ID, or GAID, for Android devices. Device and browser manufacturers may include or expand these features as part of their standard device specifications. For example, when Apple announced that UDID, a standard device identifier used in some applications, was being superseded and would no longer be supported, application developers were required to update their apps to utilize alternative device identifiers such as universally unique identifier, or, more recently, IDFA, which simplifies the process for Apple users to opt out of behavioral targeting. If players elect to utilize the opt-out mechanisms in greater numbers, our ability to deliver effective advertisements would suffer, which could adversely affect our revenues from in-game advertising. We compete with other forms of leisure activities, and a failure to successfully compete with such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition for leisure time, attention and discretionary spending of our players. Other forms of entertainment, such as offline, traditional online, personal computer and console games, television, movies, sports and the internet, together represent much larger or more well-established markets and may be perceived by our players to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and enjoyment. Consumer tastes and preferences for leisure time activities are also subject to sudden or unpredictable change on account of new innovations, developments or product launches. If consumers do not find our games to be compelling or if other existing or new leisure time activities are perceived by our players to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and overall enjoyment, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in prior periods may not be indicative of future performance, and our revenue growth rates may decline or our revenue may decline in the future compared to prior periods. Although we experienced strong growth in prior years, our growth rate moderated in 2022 and our revenue has experienced declines in recent years, with total revenues down 1.9% year-over-year in 2023 and down 0.7% year-over-year in 2024. As we continue to operate and work to grow our business, our revenue growth rates may decline or our revenue may decline compared to prior fiscal years due to a number of reasons, which may include a decrease in the growth of our overall market or market saturation, slowing demand for our games, our inability to continue to acquire games or game studios, and our inability to capitalize on growth opportunities. In addition, our growth rates may experience increased volatility due to global societal and economic disruption, such as those related to global conflicts or public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses thereto. 32 Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our future growth. We intend to continue to expand the scope of the games we provide. Any future growth, particularly to the extent that we experience rapid growth, will likely place significant demands on our management and operations. Our success in managing our growth will depend, to a significant degree, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems,