Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to we, us, our or the Company are to PropTech Acquisition Corporation, except where the context requires otherwise. References to our management or our management team are to our officers and directors, and references to the sponsor are to HC PropTech Partners I LLC. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the private placement warrants, the proceeds of the sale of our shares in connection with our initial business combination (pursuant to forward purchase agreements or backstop agreements we may enter into), shares issued to the owners of the target, debt issued to bank or other lenders or the owners of the target, or a combination of the foregoing. The issuance of additional shares in connection with an initial business combination to the owners of the target or other investors: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and/or warrants. 18 Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant debt to bank or other lenders or the owners of a target, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, our ability to pay expenses, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, and fund other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and execution of our strategy; and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial business combination plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial business combination will be successful. On November 26, 2019, we completed our initial public offering of 17,250,000 units, including 2,250,000 units that were issued pursuant to the underwriters full exercise of their over-allotment option. The units were sold at a price of $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds to us of $172.5 million. We incurred offering costs of approximately $10.1 million, inclusive of approximately $6.0 million in deferred underwriting commissions. On November 26, 2019, simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering, we completed the private sale (the private placement) of 5,700,000 private placement warrants at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant to our sponsor, generating gross proceeds to us of $5.7 million. Upon the closing of our initial public offering, an aggregate of $172.5 million of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement was deposited in a trust account established for the benefit of our public stockholders (the trust account). 19 If we are unable to complete our initial business combination by May 26, 2021, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete our initial business combination by May 26, 2021. The representative of the underwriters has agreed to waive its rights to the deferred underwriting commission held in the trust account in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by May 26, 2021 and, in such event, such amounts will be included with the funds held in the trust account that will be available to fund the redemption of the public shares. In the event of such distribution, it is possible that the per share value of the assets remaining available for distribution will be less than $10.00. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will have only 18 months from the closing of our initial public offering (or until May 26, 2021) to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination by May 26, 2021, we will: (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless if we fail to complete our initial business combination by May 26, 2021. Proposed Business Combination As more fully described in Note 1 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included as Item 1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on July 30, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the Merger Agreement) with PTAC Merger Sub Corporation, our wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub), Porch.com, Inc., (Porch), and Joe Hanauer, in his capacity as the representative of all Pre-Closing Holders (as defined in the Merger Agreement) as well as certain other agreements. For additional information regarding the Amendment, the Merger Agreement and Porch, see the Form 8-K filed by the Company with the SEC on October 12, 2020 and the Form S-4 filed by the Company with the SEC on October 14, 2020. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any significant operations nor generated any operating revenue to date. Our only activities from inception related to our formation and our initial public offering, and since the closing of our initial public offering, the search for a prospective initial business combination. Although we have not generated operating revenue, we have generated non-operating income in the form of investment income from investments held in the trust account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company, as well as costs in the pursuit of an initial business combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of approximately $3.1 million, which consisted of approximately $4,000 in investment income, offset by approximately $3.1 million in general and administrative expenses, $30,000 in related-party administrative expenses, and $50,000 in franchise tax expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of approximately $2.8 million, which consisted of approximately $1.0 million in investment income, offset by approximately $3.3 million in general and administrative expenses, $90,000 in related-party administrative expenses, approximately $152,000 in franchise tax expense and approximately $189,000 in income tax expense. 20 For the period from July 31, 2019 (date of inception) through September 30, 2019, we had a net loss of $8,000, which consisted solely of $8,000 in general and administrative expenses. Going Concern Consideration As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately $907,000 in our operating account, approximately $698,000 of investment income earned from investments held in the trust account that may be released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of such net interest to pay dissolution expenses), and a working capital deficit of approximately $1.8 million (including approximately $99,000 of franchise tax obligations). In order to finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, our sponsor or an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants, including as to exercise price, exercisability and exercise period. The terms of such working capital loans by our sponsor or its affiliates, or our officers and directors, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Through September 30, 2020, our liquidity needs have been satisfied through proceeds of $25,000 from our sponsor for issuance of the founder shares, $225,000 in loans from our sponsor, and the net proceeds from the private placement not held in the trust account. The balance of $225,000 in loans was paid in full at the closing of our initial public offering on November 26, 2019. On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced a global health emergency because of a new strain of coronavirus (the COVID-19 outbreak). In March 2020, the WHO classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve. The impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and related advisories and restrictions. These developments and the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on the financial markets and the overall economy are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. If the financial markets and/or the overall economy continue to be impacted for an extended period, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our ability to complete an initial business combination may be materially adversely affected due to significant governmental measures being implemented to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or treat its impact, including travel restrictions, the shutdown of businesses and quarantines, among others, which may limit our ability to have meetings with potential investors or affect the ability of Porchs or any other potential target companys personnel, vendors and service providers to negotiate and consummate an initial business combination in a timely manner. Our ability to consummate an initial business combination may also be dependent on the ability to raise additional equity and debt financing, which may be impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak and the resulting market downturn. In connection with our assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, management has determined that the mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should we be required to liquidate after May 26, 2021. Related Party Transactions Founder Shares In July 2019, our sponsor paid $25,000 in offering expenses on our behalf in exchange for the issuance of 3,881,250 founder shares. In October 2019, we effected a stock dividend for approximately .11 shares for each share of Class B common stock outstanding, resulting in our sponsor holding an aggregate of 4,312,500 founder shares (up to 562,500 shares of which were subject to forfeiture to the extent the underwriters did not exercise their over-allotment option in full). On November 26, 2019, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment in full; thus, these founder shares were no longer subject to forfeiture. The founder shares will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock at the time of our initial business combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustments, and are subject to certain transfer restrictions, as described in more detail below. 21 Our initial stockholders have agreed not to transfer, assign or sell any of their founder shares until the earlier to occur of (A) one year after the completion of our initial business combination or (B) subsequent to our initial business combination, (x) if the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after our initial business combination, or (y) the date on which we complete a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. Any permitted transferees will be subject to the same restrictions and other agreements of our initial stockholders with respect to any founder shares. Private Placement Warrants Simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering, we completed the private placement of warrants to our sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $5.7 million. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable for one share of our Class A common stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share. A portion of the purchase price of the Private Placement Warrants was added to the proceeds from our initial public offering held in the trust account. If our initial business combination is not completed by May 26, 2021, the proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants held in the trust account will be used to fund the redemption of the public shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law) and the Private Placement Warrants will expire worthless. The Private Placement Warrants will be non-redeemable for cash and exercisable on a cashless basis so long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees. Our sponsor agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of its Private Placement Warrants until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination. Promissory Note Related Party On July 31, 2019, our sponsor agreed to loan us an aggregate of up to $300,000 to cover expenses related to our initial public offering pursuant to a promissory note (the Note). The Note was non-interest bearing and was due upon the completion of our initial public offering. We borrowed $225,000 under the Note. The Note balance was paid in full at closing of our initial public offering on November 26, 2019. Administrative Support Agreement We agreed to pay $10,000 a month for office space, utilities, and secretarial and administrative support to our sponsor. Services commenced on the date the securities were first listed on the Nasdaq and will terminate upon the earlier of our initial business combination or our liquidation. We incurred $30,000 and $90,000 for expenses in connection with such services for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, respectively, which is reflected in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Investments Held in Trust Account Our portfolio of investments held in the Trust Account are comprised of U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, and money market funds that invest solely in U.S. government securities. Our investments held in the Trust Account are classified as trading securities. Trading securities are presented on the balance sheets at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the change in fair value of these securities is included in investment income from investments held in Trust Account in our statements of operations. The fair value for trading securities is determined using quoted market prices in active markets. 22 Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for the Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity . Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as a liability and measured at fair value. Shares of conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, shares of Class A common stock are classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. We recognize changes in redemption value immediately as they occur and will adjust the carrying value of the security at the end of each reporting period. Increases or decreases in the carrying value of redeemable shares of Class A common stock shall be affected by charges against additional paid-in capital. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, 16,038,695 and 16,316,085 shares of Class A common stock subject to conditional redemption, respectively, are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes (ASU 2019-12), which is intended to simplify various aspects related to accounting for income taxes. ASU 2019-12 removes certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our financial statements and related disclosures. We do not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material impact on our financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements; Commitments and Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2020, and December 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any long-term debt obligations, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations, purchase obligations or other long-term liabilities. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to those of companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We intend to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following November 26, 2024, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our Class A common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. 23