Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report. The sale of HOA to PIRE completed our planned structural changes. We plan to operate prospectively under new segments effective in 2025. Our new segments will be Insurance Services, Software & Data, Consumer Services, and PIRE. Because of its member-owned design, PIRE results will be reported as noncontrolling interest for the time being. Scale PIRE Insurance Premiums Our strategy continues to focus on profitable growth, including recruiting a high performing sales team who will increase our quote volumes and therefore insurance gross written premiums by: Building deeper relationships with existing third party insurance agencies. Expand the number of third party insurance agency relationships. Expand our offering within our existing states and into new states. In addition, we plan to continue to increase premium per policy and implement other underwriting actions where appropriate. Software Innovation to SaaS Businesses We plan to continue increasing utilization of our SaaS products and maintain high customer retention. We expect to launch new products and features to meet the needs of our clients, while increasing prices and maintaining high customer retention rates. Growth of Data Business We intend to add new Home Factors, our property insights product, each quarter and further monetize Home Factors with third parties. Expand Access to Consumers By leveraging existing partnerships with moving companies, major utilities, and other other partnerships, we are expanding access to high-value homebuyers early in their journey, and fostering long-term customer relationships. Government Regulation General We are subject to laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet generally and through mobile applications, including laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for their operations and the activities of users. As a result, we could be subject to claims based on negligence, unfair business practices, various torts and trademark and copyright infringement, among other actions. As we receive, transmit, store and use a substantial amount of information received from or generated by consumers and service professionals, we are impacted by state laws and regulations governing privacy, the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal data and data breaches. These regulations are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. For example, California passed a 8 Table of Contents comprehensive data privacy law, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and other states including Virginia, Colorado, Utah, and Connecticut have also passed similar laws. These laws impose data protection obligations on covered businesses, including consumer rights procedures and obligations, limitations on data uses, audit requirements for higher risk data, and constraints on certain uses of sensitive data. The majority of the CPRA provisions were effective January 1, 2023. We are subject to laws governing marketing and advertising activities conducted by/through telephone, e-mail, mobile devices and the Internet, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR), the CAN-SPAM Act, Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar state laws, as well as federal, state, and local laws and agency guidelines governing background screening. We are also subject to certain laws and regulations with regard to the real estate settlement process, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which, among other matters, prohibits certain practices, such as kickbacks, referrals, and unearned fees for the referral of real estate settlement services. Furthermore, our moving services business is subject to various federal, state and local agencies that exercise broad regulatory powers over the moving industry, generally governing such activities as operations of and authorization to engage in transportation, insurance requirements, and licensing. Additionally, as we expand into the insurance business, which is highly regulated, we must comply with and maintain various licenses and approvals with individual state departments of insurance, and we are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. Insurance State Regulation Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent, and substance of such regulation varies by state but generally has its source in National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) model laws and regulations that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and may be adopted by each state regulatory agency. Moreover, the NAIC Accreditation Program requires state regulatory agencies to meet baseline standards of solvency regulation, particularly with respect to regulation of multi-state insurers. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use our insurance products, and not our shareholders. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including: insurance company licensing and examination; the licensing of insurance agents and adjusters; price setting or premium rates; underwriting rules and restrictions; trade practices; approval of policy forms; claims practices; restrictions on transactions between our subsidiaries and their affiliates, including the payment of dividends; investments; underwriting standards; advertising and marketing practices; capital adequacy; and the collection, remittance and reporting of certain taxes, licenses and fees. Insurance Holding Company Regulation Nearly all states have adopted the Model Insurance Holding Company System Regulation Act and Regulation as amended by the NAIC in December 2010 (the Amended Model Act). As part of an insurance holding company system, HOA, our insurance carrier, is required to register with the Texas Department of Insurance (the insurance supervisory agency of HOAs state of domicile) and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Under these laws, the respective state insurance departments may examine us at any time, require disclosure of material transactions and require prior notice of or approval for certain transactions. All transactions within a holding company system affecting an insurer must have fair and reasonable terms and are subject to other standards and requirements established by law and regulation. Financial Solvency Ratios The NAIC annually calculates 13 financial ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. A usual range of results for each of these ratios is used by insurance regulators as a benchmark. Departure from the usual range on four or more of the ratios could lead to inquiries from individual state insurance departments as to certain aspects of a company's business. In addition to the financial ratios, states also require us to calculate a minimum capital requirement for each of our insurance companies based on individual company insurance risk factors. These risk-based capital results are used by state insurance regulators to identify companies that require regulatory attention or the initiation of regulatory action. 9 Table of Contents Restrictions on Shareholder Dividends Our insurance carriers capacity to pay dividends to shareholders is limited. Insurance companies must provide advance informational notice to the domicile state insurance regulatory authority prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders. Prior approval from the state insurance regulatory authority must be obtained before payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined under the state's insurance code. The amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid is subject to certain limitations, the amounts of which change each year. Price Regulation Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring our carrier to file rate schedules, policy or coverage forms, and other information within the state's regulatory authority. In certain states, rate schedules, policy forms, or both, must be approved prior to use. While insurance laws vary from state to state, their objectives are generally the same: an insurance rate cannot be excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory. The speed with which we can change our rates in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on the willingness of state regulators to allow adequate rates for the business we write. Insurance Reserves State insurance laws require that insurance companies analyze the adequacy of their reserves annually. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that our statutory reserves are adequate to meet policy claims-paying obligations and related expenses. Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies Most states regulate our carriers ability to exit a market. For example, states limit, to varying degrees, our ability to cancel and non-renew insurance policies. Some states prohibit us from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except upon prior regulatory approval. Regulations that limit policy cancellation and non-renewal may restrict our ability to exit unprofitable markets. Investment Regulation Our insurance business is subject to various state regulations requiring investment portfolio diversification and limiting the concentration of investments we may maintain in certain asset categories. Failure to comply with these regulations leads to the treatment of nonconforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, state regulations require us to sell certain nonconforming investments. Insurance Guaranty Associations Each state has insurance guaranty association laws. Membership in a state's insurance guaranty association is generally mandatory for insurers wishing to do business in that state. Under these laws, associations may assess their members for certain obligations that insolvent insurance companies have incurred with regard to their policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each solvent association member with an amount related to that member's proportionate share of business written by all association members within the state. Most state guaranty associations allow solvent insurers to recoup the assessments they are charged through future rate increases, surcharges or premium tax credits. However, there is no assurance that we will ultimately recover these assessments. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds under these laws. Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans State insurance regulations often require insurers to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations. These are mechanisms that generally provide applicants with various types of basic insurance coverage that may not otherwise be available to them through voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly instituted for automobile and workers' compensation insurance, but many states also mandate participation in Fair Access to Insurance Requirements Plans or Windstorm Plans, which provide basic property coverage. Participation is based upon the amount of a company's voluntary market share in a particular state for the classes of insurance involved. Policies written through these mechanisms may require different underwriting standards and may pose greater risk than those written through our voluntary application process. Statutory Accounting Principles For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, state laws require us to calculate and report certain data according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any 10 Table of Contents GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies. Federal Regulation Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives and legislation often have an impact on our business. These initiatives and legislation include tort reform proposals, proposals addressing natural catastrophe exposures, terrorism risk mechanisms, federal financial services reforms, various tax proposals affecting insurance companies, and possible regulatory limitations, impositions and restrictions arising from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank). Human Capital Management By staying true to our core values (No Jerks/No Egos; Solve Each Problem; Be Ambitious; Care Deeply; and Together We Win), we have created a company where good people can do great work and drive shareholder value. These values guide us in everything we do, from individual everyday tasks to high-level strategic planning. They foster a culture of dialogue, collaboration, and recognition that contributes to our long-term success. We are organized in a decentralized operating model, which allows our businesses to move quickly and entrepreneurially leverage a common playbook and infrastructure that benefit from shared best practices as we scale. When we acquire a company, our decentralized operating model helps us maintain momentum and entrepreneurial culture while mitigating the risks associated with integration. In most cases, we integrate acquisitions into our (1) central data platform; (2) transactional monetization to drive our business-to-business-to-consumer revenues such as insurance and warranty; and (3) operational systems, such as accounting and payroll. We engage and empower our team with continued career and learning and development opportunities. Fostering a growth mindset facilitates a culture where all voices are heard and team members can take informed risks, ask questions, and seek creative solutions to tough problems. This approach helps us build a strong bench of leaders for tomorrows business challenges. We are a progressive organization which values environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) initiatives. Our ESG strategy reflects the relevant issues that are most important to Porch and our stakeholders. We released our second ESG report in December 2024. Our diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging efforts are based on the principle that all Porch team members can bring their whole selves to work and thrive. We have a commitment throughout the organization for Porch to be a supportive and inclusive environment. We pride ourselves on our values-driven culture that fosters employee engagement and creates an attractive home for top talent. We were certified as a Great Place to Work in 2023 and 2024. As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 733 employees, which includes 729 full-time employees. We also utilize independent contractors in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that we generally have good relationships with our employees and contractors. Available Information Our main consumer website is www.porch.com, and our corporate and investor relations website is located at www.porchgroup.com. You may access our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) free of charge at www.porchgroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Neither the information on these websites, nor the information on the websites of any of our brands and businesses, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, any other filings with, or any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The following summary risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The summary risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also affect our business operations or financial results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our stock price, business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For more information, see below for more detailed descriptions of each risk factor. Our brands and businesses, including the insurance business we manage, operate in an especially competitive and evolving industry. We face a variety of risks from our expansion into the insurance business, including as a result of higher than expected claims costs and other factors outside of the Companys control, which may result in an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to manage the operations of and grow the insurance business we manage and operate by limiting attrition and building surplus and increasing our revenue by increasing the number of sales of home-related services per customer and consumer. We may not succeed in these efforts. The incidence, frequency and severity of weather events, extensive wildfires, and other catastrophes, particularly occurring where Porch has a concentration of homeowners insurance policyholders, or that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior in the industries we serve, could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our efforts to develop new insurance products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, use Home Factors in underwriting, or make acquisitions may not be successful and may create enhanced risk. We may not be able to protect our systems, technology and infrastructure from cyberattacks and cyberattacks experienced by third parties may adversely affect us. If personal, confidential, or sensitive user information or property data that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate, and our reputation could be harmed. Our brands and businesses are sensitive to general economic events, trends and conditions, including those related to, without limitation, the housing and financial markets, which impacts the demand and costs for a portion of our products and services. We may be unable to access the capital markets when needed, which could adversely affect the ability to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise and to fund operations in a cost-effective manner. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We operate an insurance business through a reciprocal exchange, Porch Insurance Reciprocal Exchange (PIRE).We do not own PIRE but provide certain management services for which we receive compensation. The growth and financial health of PIRE directly affect our operating revenue and the payment of interest and principal on surplus notes we hold is uncertain. If the management fee rate retained by Porchs insurance services businesses is reduced or if there is a significant decrease in the amount of direct and assumed premiums written by PIRE, revenues and profitability of the Company could be materially adversely affected. PIRE is dependent on the use of reinsurance. We may change the structure of the reinsurance arrangement for PIRE and our reinsurance captive in the future, which may impact our overall risk profile and financial and capital condition. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit PIREs ability to write new business. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects PIRE to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect it against losses, which could have a material effect on results of our operations and financial condition. The performance of PIREs and our reinsurance captives investment portfolios is subject to a variety of investment risks. The financial strength ratings of PIRE and Homeowners of America (HOA), its insurance company subsidiary, could be downgraded. Increases in parts, appliance and home system prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues in the insurance industry are uncertain. Failure to maintain PIREs risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect its ability to maintain regulatory authority to conduct business. PIREs and our insurance captives loss reserves may be inadequate to cover actual losses. PIRE and our reinsurance captive could be forced to sell investments to meet liquidity requirements. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models or changes in accessibility to such models used to assess and predict PIREs exposure to catastrophic losses. A sustained decline in the price of our common stock would negatively impact HOA regulatory surplus, which may require it to raise additional funds to enable HOA to adhere to regulatory requirements and maintain its financial stability rating. If the costs of providing services to PIRE are not controlled, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of the market, including research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality in consumer demand and historical weather trends, in addition to other factors associated with our industry. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. We are subject to credit risk arising from the financial soundness of counterparties, including PIREs and our reinsurance captives reinsurers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The insurance businesses we manage and operate are subject to state governmental regulation, which could limit the growth of the insurance businesses and impose additional costs on PIRE and HOA. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data is subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations and could give rise to liabilities and increased costs. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to make such payments. The indenture governing our 2028 Notes contains, and instruments governing any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business, and any default on our 2028 Notes or other future secured indebtedness could result in foreclosure by our secured debtholders on our assets. We face risks associated with our independent contractors. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain, attract and integrate qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. Expansion of our employee base to foreign countries will subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The price of the Companys securities may change significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment as a result. Because there are no current plans to pay cash dividends on the Companys common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. The summary risk factors described above should be read together with the text of the full risk factors below and in the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, as well as in other documents that we file with the SEC. If any such risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks are more fully described below, and these risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Porchs Business and Industry Our brands and businesses, including the insurance business we manage, operate in an especially competitive and evolving industry. Our brands and businesses operate in home-related product and service industries, which include insurance, mortgage software, title insurance software, warranty, moving services, inspection software, home repair, and marketing, financial and other software for home services companies; all of which are competitive, evolving, and some of which are highly regulated. There are many existing competitors and a consistent and growing stream of new entrants, services and products. Some of our competitors are well-established, have greater functional and compliance maturity, or have better competitive positions with respect to certain geographical areas, consumer and service provider demographics, and/or types of services offered. Some of our competitors have stronger brand name recognition, better economies of scale, more developed software platforms or other intellectual property, and/or better access to capital. Additionally, the home and home-related services industries continue to undergo consolidation and vertical integration, which may make it more difficult to compete with existing competitors and new entrants. Any of these advantages could enable these competitors to reach more consumers and service providers than we reach, offer products and services that are more appealing to consumers and service providers than our products and services, and respond more quickly and/or cost effectively than we respond to evolving market opportunities and trends, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, our innovative business model and our limited track record as a public company may cause confusion in the market such that failures of our competitors or companies operating in similar or adjacent spaces may impact consumer or investor perceptions of the digital home services industry as a whole. If we are unable to compete effectively against competitors, services or products or if we are unable to establish or maintain a consumer brand that resonates with customers and/or enhance our existing brands and the brands of our recently acquired companies, or if we are unable to maintain high customer satisfaction or compete with the pricing offered by our competitors,the result could be decreases in the size and level of engagement of our consumer and service provider bases, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a variety of risks from our expansion into the insurance business, including as a result of higher than expected claims costs and other factors outside of the Companys control, which may result in an adverse impact on the Companys financial condition. In 2021, we expanded our insurance operations through the acquisition of HOA, a leading property and casualty insurance company focused on products in the residential homeowner space.Effective January 1, 2025, we sold HOA to PIRE, a newly formed reciprocal insurance exchange. Porch acts as the attorney-in-fact for PIRE, receiving commission and fees as compensation for services in our new Insurance Services segment beginning in January 1, 2025. In addition, within our new Insurance Services segment, our wholly owned reinsurance captive insurance company, Porticus Re, provides reinsurance support to PIRE. As a result, we continue to be exposed to certain risks related to the insurance business, certainly in the first quarter of 2025 and, depending on the placement of third party reinsurance (which occurs on April 1 of each year), such risks could continue ongoing. PIRE bears the cost of paying insured claims. Claims costs may be adversely affected by increases in costs of home repair as a result of inflated material costs, supply chain shortages, increases in labor costs, and demand surge during catastrophic events. In addition, prices for raw materials, such as lumber and steel, are subject to market volatility. We cannot predict the extent to which PIRE and our reinsurance captive may experience future increases in claims costs. To the extent such costs increase, PIRE may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers. Such increases in costs could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Prior to sale of HOA to PIRE, the Company used our captive reinsurer to support HOA with two different reinsurance programs: a non-catastrophic weather quota share to provide capital efficiency for the insurance entity while avoiding the variability and risk of large weather events at the reinsurer, and Excess of Loss reinsurance to provide protection for large weather losses where not provided by third parties. Our intent is to continue the non-catastrophic weather quota share on April 1, 2025 and ongoing and we believe this is a long-term strategy to create capital efficiency for PIRE and attractive, lower-risk economics for Porch shareholders. Our intent is to not continue the participation of our captive reinsurer in providing Excess of Loss reinsurance as of April 1, 2025; however, we cannot be certain that PIRE will be able to fully place its excess of loss reinsurance needs with third party reinsurers and may need to utilize Porch's captive reinsurer if it is unable to do so. Under this arrangement, the captive owned by the Company serves as the reinsurer, and the consolidated books and tax returns of the Company reflect a liability consisting of the full reserve amount attributable to the reinsured business, which is significantly higher than previous years insurance related liabilities. The success of the Companys captive reinsurance program is dependent on a number of factors outside the control of the Company, including, but not 14 Table of Contents limited to, weather events, continued access to financial solutions, a favorable regulatory environment, and the overall tax position of the Company. If the captive reinsurance program is not successful, the Companys financial condition could be adversely impacted. Additionally, capital held by the captive cannot be used elsewhere within the Company without applicable regulatory pre-approval.Whether PIRE will continue to use the captive reinsurer going forward depends upon a number of circumstances, including the availability and pricing of reinsurance from third parties, the amount of capital it holds and regulatory requirements. If PIRE were to cease using the captive, our access to its capital and assets would remain restricted while it has runoff reinsurance obligations. PIRE is highly dependent on maintaining successful relationships with third-party independent agents and agencies. Negative changes in such relationships could adversely affect its insurance business, including, but not limited to, reduced sales, the loss of existing policies, the need to lower prices, or the need to pay higher commissions. In addition, although such agents/agencies are appointed as independent contractors with the authority to solicit and bind insurance policies on PIREs behalf, any misconduct on their part could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, reputation and results of operations. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to manage the operations of and grow the insurance business we manage and operate by limiting attrition, building the surplus of PIRE, and increasing our revenue by increasing the number of sales of home-related services per customer and consumer. We may not succeed in these efforts. We are also subject to the cyclical nature of the insurance industry. The financial performance of the insurance industry has historically fluctuated with periods of lower premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition followed by periods of higher premium rates and reduced underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Although the financial performance of an insurance company depends on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of many insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Because the cyclical nature of the market is due in large part to the actions of competitors and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to manage the operations of and grow the insurance business we manage. The insurance industry is highly competitive and regulated, and our growth depends on our ability to continue to obtain reinsurance at levels and pricing favorable to us, manage risk, limit policy attrition, obtain regulatory alignment on our business plans and financials, and continue to build the surplus of PIRE to support additional growth, which may require raising capital if unable to grow organically. There can be no assurances we will be successful in these efforts. Our future growth also depends in part on increasing the revenue generated from each customer or consumer we serve. We plan on increasing this revenue by increasing the number of value-add touchpoints with customers and consumers for whom we have access rights by offering new services and by improving conversion rates and revenue generation of both existing and new services. There can be no assurances we will be successful in these efforts. Failure to increase revenue per customer or consumer may slow our growth, which could in turn have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth therefore depends, in part, on our ability to attract new customers, maintain existing customers, sell additional products and services to existing customers, and increase prices to align with industry trends. This depends on our ability to understand and anticipate customers needs and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality services and products. If we fail to engage new customers, continue to re-engage with our existing customers or to cross-sell additional services, our operating results could be materially impacted. The incidence, frequency and severity of weather events, extensive wildfires, and other catastrophes, particularly occurring where PIRE has a concentration of homeowners insurance policyholders, or that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior in the industries we serve, could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, severe weather events and the effects of climate change, including, tornado and hail events, hurricanes extensive wildfires, drought, storms, flooding, and other catastrophes, and the frequency of such events, as well as the impacts of future global pandemics and other health crises, may harm the insurance business we manage and operate and could result in additional capital being required at PIRE, whether from Porch or a third party investor.While we intend to manage our risk via reinsurance, there can be no guarantee this will adequately reduce our exposure to losses due to various risks inherent in reinsurance generally and with our reinsurance program, including, but not limited to, the inability to negotiate reinsurance contracts at renewal at acceptable terms or at all, our limited number of reinsurance partners, large catastrophes that exceed aggregate reinsurance coverage limits, the inability or unwillingness of counterparties to pay reinsurance receivables we believe we are owed, multiple losses in a single year that exceed our ability to reinstate reinsurance contracts, and the potential for fraud or misrepresentation committed by our reinsurance partners. The availability of reinsurance and its price are generally determined in the reinsurance market by conditions beyond our control and can be negatively impacted by such severe weather events and the effects of climate change, including, tornado 15 Table of Contents and hail events, hurricanes, extensive wildfires, drought, flooding and other catastrophes, and the frequency of such events, as well as the impacts of future global pandemics and other health crises, may harm the insurance business we manage and operate.Additionally, a significant increase in insurance claims and the cost of the claims by consumers who purchase our insurance could reduce PIREs access to reinsurance. These events have in the past and could in the future negatively affect the economy in general, and the housing and home services markets in particular. These events and trends could also result in decreased marketing and advertising expenditures by service providers or cash flow problems for service providers that could affect their ability to pay us subscription fees, their ability to purchase leads from us and the success of any revenue sharing arrangements with them or could result in service providers decreasing and/or delaying subscription fees paid for our platform or being more likely to default on incurred fees, which would result in decreased revenue. Any of these events could negatively affect the home industries PIRE serves and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to develop new insurance products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, use of Home Factors in underwriting, or make acquisitions may not be successful and may create enhanced risk. Our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, or make acquisitions may require us to make substantial expenditures and may not be successful, and even if successful, they may create additional risks including, but not limited to: Changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk. Models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. Demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations. New products or services and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those used in existing markets or with existing products. Acquisitions may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial disruption, costs, or delays, and adversely affecting our ability to compete, and may also result in unforeseen liabilities or impact our credit ratings. In connection with the conversion of policyholders to a new product, some policyholders pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. Negative publicity and potential for reputational harm using home data to inform risk calculations. We may not be able to consistently replicate favorable results with the use of Home Factors in underwriting for carriers other than HOA, which may be due to carrier location, modeling capabilities, or business goals of other carriers. These efforts may require substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on relationships with third parties to provide us with access to derive personal data and information, and property data. We rely on relationships with third party companies to provide us with information such as property insights. In the future, any of these third parties could sever its relationship with us, change its data sharing policies, including making them more restrictive, or alter its own data collection practices, any of which could result in the loss of, or significant impairment to, our ability to access, collect and use personal information about their customers or consumers. We also license data from third-party data brokers and other data suppliers. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to access, collect or use personal information or property data provided by consumers, service providers and commercial partners as we currently do or may want to do in the future. Our ability to access, collect and use personal information and property data provided by these parties may be adversely affected by federal and state laws and regulations that make it burdensome for us to collect or use personal information and property data. Additionally, our collection and use of personal information or property data may cause privacy concerns of the individuals from whom we collect personal information, privacy and reputational concerns of commercial partners that provide us with end customer 16 Table of Contents personal information and property data, and adverse consumer reaction to our marketing practices. This could cause us to lose customers and reduce the number of commercial partners using our platforms. We also use consumer data that we directly collect from consumers or license from third parties to provide targeted marketing services to third parties based upon such consumer data. Practices in this industry are under scrutiny by federal and state law enforcement agencies and regulators in light of new and proposed federal and state laws, and pressure from some lawmakers and privacy advocates regarding how consumer data is collected and used in the ad tech industry. If we are unable to collect information from our customers or our service providers and commercial partners do not continue to provide us with information of their customers, or if applicable laws prohibit or materially impair our use of such information, our ability to provide services to consumers and drive consumer access to service providers may be materially impacted. This may make our products, services and pricing for such products and services less appealing to consumers and service providers, which in turn may lead to reduced utilization of our products and services. To the extent any of the foregoing occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our brands and businesses may not be successful or cost-effective. Attracting home services companies and consumers to our brands and businesses involves considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing and sales. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant marketing expenditures, primarily for digital marketing such as paid search engine marketing, display advertising and third-party affiliate agreements. These efforts may not be successful or cost-effective. Our ability to market our brands on any given property or channel is subject to the policies of the relevant third-party seller or publisher of advertising or marketing affiliate. As a result, we cannot assure you that these parties will not limit or prohibit us from purchasing certain types of advertising, advertising certain of our products and services and/or using one or more current or prospective marketing channels in the future. If a significant marketing channel took such an action generally, for a significant period of time and/or on a recurring basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to comply with the policies of third-party sellers, publishers of advertising and/or marketing affiliates, our advertisements could be removed without notice and/or our accounts could be suspended or terminated, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure to respond to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of marketing channels, as well as changing policies and guidelines applicable to digital advertising, which may unilaterally be updated by search engines without advance notice, could adversely affect our digital marketing efforts and free search engine traffic. Such changes could adversely affect the placement and pricing of paid listings, as well as the ranking of our brands and businesses within search results, any or all of which could increase our marketing expenditures, particularly if free traffic is replaced with paid traffic. Additionally, our competitors may engage in marketing strategies and search engine optimization techniques that increase the relative ranking of their brands and businesses within search engine results at the expense of our rankings within such search results. This could have a negative impact on the results of our search engine marketing efforts. Any or all of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our systems, technology and infrastructure from cyberattacks and cyberattacks experienced by third parties may adversely affect us. If personal, confidential, or sensitive user information or property data that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate, and our reputation could be harmed. We receive, process, store and transmit a significant amount of personal information and property data about consumers that use our products and services, as well as our employees. While we continuously develop and maintain systems designed to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of this information, we cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information. When such events occur, we may not be able to remedy them, we may be required by law to notify regulators, impacted individuals and commercial partners, and it may be costly to mitigate the impact of such events and to develop and implement protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring. If we or any third party that we engage to host our platforms or otherwise store or process data experience a breach of security, third parties could gain unauthorized access to personal data about our users and subscribers. As a result, or associated with any required regulatory disclosures, we could face governmental enforcement actions, significant fines, litigation (including consumer class actions), claims for breach of contract and/or indemnity by third parties, and harm to the reputation of our brands and business, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A single breach could result in claims for damages or indemnification from many counterparties. Any such breach or other unauthorized access could indirectly harm the reputation of our brands and businesses and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Even if we do not experience such events firsthand, the impact of any such events experienced by third parties 17 Table of Contents including service providers, could indirectly harm the reputation of our brands and businesses and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be attacked by perpetrators of malicious technology-related events, such as the use of botnets, malware or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing, attempts to misappropriate user information and account login credentials, ransomware attempts, and other similar malicious activities including malicious activities from internal bad actors. The incidence of events of this nature is on the rise worldwide. While we continuously develop and maintain systems designed to detect and prevent events of this nature from impacting our systems, technology, infrastructure, products, services and users, have invested and continue to invest in these efforts and related personnel and training, and deploy data minimization strategies where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. These efforts, which include developing and maintaining the systems of recently acquired companies, are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome preventative security measures are becoming more sophisticated. Despite these efforts, some of our systems have experienced past security incidents, none of which had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we could experience significant events of this nature in the future. Any event of this nature that we experience could damage our systems, technology and infrastructure and/or those of our users, prevent us from providing our products and services, compromise the integrity of our products and services, damage our reputation, erode our brands and/or be costly to remedy, and may subject us to investigations by regulatory authorities, fines, claims for breach of contract or indemnity by third parties and/or litigation that could result in liability to third parties. Even if we do not experience such events firsthand, the impact of any such events experienced by third parties could have a similar effect. We sell or otherwise provide certain consumer personal information to third parties as part of our business. These third parties may be subject to similar cyberattacks and there can be no assurance that such third parties have adequate cybersecurity infrastructure to prevent breaches of the personal data sold to them by us. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses resulting from any of the above events. If we or any third party with whom we do business or otherwise rely upon experience an event of this nature, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on the continued migration of the home and home-related services market online. We believe that the digital penetration of the home and home-related services market remains low, with the vast majority of consumers continuing to search for, select and hire service providers offline. While many consumer demographics have been and remain averse to finding service providers online, others have demonstrated a greater willingness to purchase such services online. Whether or not service providers turn to Internet platforms will depend, in substantial part, on whether online products and services help them to better connect and engage with consumers relative to traditional offline efforts. The speed and ultimate outcome of the transition of the home and home-related services market online for consumers and service providers is uncertain and may not occur as quickly as we expect, or at all. The failure or delay of a meaningful number of consumers and/or service providers to migrate online and/or the return of a meaningful number of existing participants in the online home services market to offline solutions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our brands and businesses are sensitive to general economic events, trends and conditions, including those related to, without limitation, the housing and financial markets, which impact the demand for certain of our products and services. Our businesses are sensitive to events and trends, such as a general economic downturn, health of the housing market, inflation or sudden disruption in business conditions, a recession or fears of a recession, consumer confidence, spending levels and access to credit, which could result in decreases in demand for insurance, home mortgages, warranty, moving and inspection services, home repair, and marketing, financial and other software for home services companies and providers. Any such decreases could result in turnover of our consumer and service provider base and/or adversely impact the breadth of services offered through our service market platform, our home-related services, and our warranty and insurance products. Demand for certain of our products and services generally decreases as the number of housing purchasing and refinance transactions decreases. The housing market is seasonal, cyclical and affected by significant conditions beyond our control. The number of housing transactions in which certain of the Companys products and services are purchased have been, and may continue to be, impacted by the following situations, among others: high, volatile or rising mortgage interest rates; availability of credit, including commercial and residential mortgage funding; 18 Table of Contents real estate affordability, housing supply rates, home building rates, housing foreclosures rates, multi-family housing fundamentals, and the pace of home price appreciation or the lack of it; slow economic growth or recessionary conditions and other macroeconomic conditions, which may be impacted by national or global events; local, state and federal government intervention in the financial markets; increased unemployment or declining or stagnant wages; changes in household debt levels and disposable income; changing trends in consumer spending; fewer homebuyers electing to get a home inspection new or increased tariffs or trade restrictions on imported materials and products used in home building; and changing expectations for inflation and deflation. Any adverse impact on a macro level to the housing or financial markets generally could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to deliver effective customer service, it could harm our relationships with our existing home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners and adversely affect our ability to attract new home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to satisfy our home services companies, consumers and service providers, both by providing access to services that address the needs of consumers and service providers and providing services and software-based solutions to home services companies that address their business needs. Our customer support personnel also sell our products and services. If our sales efforts are not satisfactory, consumers may choose not to do business with us, or we may suffer reputational costs. Additionally, our home services companies, consumers and service providers depend on our customer support personnel to resolve technical issues relating to the use of our products and services. We may be unable to respond quickly to accommodate short-term increases in demand for support services or may otherwise encounter a customer service issue that is difficult to resolve. If a home services company, consumer or service provider is not satisfied with the quality or responsiveness of our customer service, we could incur additional costs to address the situation or the home services company, service provider, or consumer (and commercial partners who provide us with their customers data) may choose not to do business with us or we may suffer reputational costs. As we do not separately charge our home services companies, consumers and service providers for support services, increased demand for our support services would increase costs without corresponding revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the quality or responsiveness of our customer service efforts, home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners that are not satisfied with outcomes may choose to terminate, or not to renew, their relationships with us. Certain parts of our business are highly dependent on the ease of use of our products and services and positive recommendations from our existing home services companies, consumers and service providers. Any failure to maintain high-quality or responsive customer service, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality or responsive customer service, could harm our reputation, cause us to lose home services companies, consumers or service providers and adversely impact our ability to sell our products and services to prospective consumers. We may be unable to access the capital markets when needed, which could adversely affect the ability to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, refinance our outstanding notes, and fund operations in a cost-effective manner. Our ability to grow our business may depend in part on the ability to access capital when needed to strategically grow our operations, reduce leverage, and provide statutory surplus to grow the insurance business we manage and operate. Capital markets may become illiquid from time to time, and we cannot predict the extent and duration of future economic and market disruptions or the impact of any government interventions. We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require capital but cannot raise it or cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and we may be unable to execute our long-term growth strategy or, if necessary, obtain the capital necessary to refinance our outstanding notes. Increases in parts, appliance and home system prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our home warranty business line may be adversely affected by increases in the level of our operating expenses, such as refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, healthcare, contractor 19 Table of Contents costs, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary and other pressures. Such increase in operating expenses, including contract claims costs, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Prices for raw materials, such as steel and fuel, are subject to market volatility and may be negatively affected by the application of tariffs on foreign goods. We cannot predict the extent to which our home warranty business line may experience future increases in costs of refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, healthcare, contractor costs, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs and other operating costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may face negative consequences from the actions and omissions of our service providers, and our terms and conditions may not adequately protect us from claims. Under our agreements with consumers and service providers, our service providers, and not us, are responsible for the actions and omissions of our service providers. However, consumers may still bring claims against us for actions and omissions of service providers, and the service providers may deny responsibility for or be unable to pay any resulting liability. Additionally, certain agreements with our commercial partners obligate us to indemnify such commercial partners against third-party claims resulting from the actions and omissions of the service providers we engage to provide services to consumers referred to us by those commercial partners. These claims may be expensive and may divert managements time away from our operations. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses resulting from these claims, and too many or certain types of claims may result in increased premiums or denial of coverage. In addition, we may be deemed, correctly or incorrectly, a contractor with respect to our service providers, which may subject us to licensure and/or bonding requirements and may subject us to penalties for past operations. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In general, our consumers and our service providers agree to our customer terms and conditions by accessing our services online. However, some consumers or service providers who access our services only by phone, and consumers who come to us from third-party lead sources, may not click through to our terms and conditions. If consumers or service providers do not agree to our terms and conditions for any reason, we may face increased litigation risk, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our platform is complex and highly integrated, and if we fail to successfully manage releases or integrate new solutions, it could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We manage a complex platform of solutions that consists of our software and services for companies and products for consumers. Many of our solutions include a large number of product centers that are highly integrated and require interoperability with other Porch products, as well as products and services of third-party service providers. Due to this complexity and the development cycles under which we operate, we may experience errors in our software, corruption or loss of our data or unexpected performance issues from time to time. For example, our solutions may face interoperability difficulties with software operating systems or programs being used by our customers, or new releases, upgrades, fixes or the integration of acquired technologies may have unanticipated consequences on the operation and performance of our other solutions. If we encounter integration challenges or discover errors in our solutions late in our development cycle, it may cause us to delay our launch dates. Any major integration or interoperability issues or launch delays could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely upon trademarks, trade dress, domain names and logos to market our brands and businesses and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions on access to and use of proprietary information with employees, independent contractors, home services companies, consumers, service providers, commercial partners, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our and their various intellectual property rights. No assurances can be given that these efforts will result in adequate trademark and service mark protection, adequate domain name rights and protections. Despite these measures, challenges to our intellectual property rights could still arise, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization, and/or laws regarding the enforceability of existing intellectual property rights could change in an adverse manner. We may also be subject to claims from third parties in the future related to alleged intellectual property infringement by us. These claims, if resolved in a manner adverse to us, could result in significant liabilities and could restrict or prohibit our 20 Table of Contents ability to use the technology on which we rely. Even if these claims are resolved in our favor, such claims could result in significant expenses and could distract our management until resolved. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our various brands and limitations on our ability to operate our business, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our ability to reach consumers earlier than our competitors and ongoing throughout the homebuying and homeownership journey. Our competitors could find ways to reach these customers and consumers earlier than us or at other times during the homebuying and homeownership journey. Our consumer access model allows us to market and offer services to customers of home services, public utilities, and moving service companies very early and throughout the homebuying and homeowning journey. We also have relationships with commercial partners that provide us with data about consumers who may require a variety of home-related services early and throughout the homebuying and homeownership journey. There can be no assurances that we will continue to receive access to these customers and consumers relative to our competitors. Our competitors may adopt a similar model or may develop a new model that affords them similar or earlier access. Any erosion of our competitive advantage in access to customers of home services, public utilities, and moving service companies may impair future opportunities to monetize those customers and impact our retention rates, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we capture early access to these customers, if we are unable to convert that access into sales of our services and products, it could negatively impact revenue growth and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and monetize versions of our products and services for mobile and other digital devices. As consumers increasingly access products and services through mobile and other digital devices, we will need to continue to devote significant time and resources to develop new applications and functionalities to ensure that our products and services are accessible across these platforms. If we do not keep pace with evolving online, market and industry trends, including the introduction of new and enhanced digital devices, use of artificial intelligence (AI), and changes in the preferences and needs of consumers and service providers generally, offer new and/or enhanced products and services in response to such trends that resonate with consumers and service providers, monetize products and services for mobile and other digital devices as effectively as our traditional products and services and/or maintain related systems, technology and infrastructure in an efficient and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the success of future mobile and other digital products and services depends on their interoperability with various third-party operating systems, technology, infrastructure and standards, including rapidly evolving mobile data privacy standards, over which we have no control. Any changes to any of these things that compromise the quality or functionality of our mobile and other digital products and services could adversely affect their usage levels and/or our ability to attract consumers and service providers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been incorporating and continue to work to further incorporate AI into our products, services and internal operations. Implementation of AI and machine learning technologies may result in legal and regulatory risks, reputational harm or have other adverse consequences to our business. We have and are continuing to incorporate AI, including machine learning and independent algorithms, in certain of our products, services and internal operations, which is intended to enhance their operation and effectiveness internally and for our customers, suppliers and consumers. AI innovation presents risks and challenges that could impact our business. Our, or vendors, AI algorithms may be flawed. Our datasets or AI training algorithms may be insufficient or contain biased information. Additionally, many countries and regions have proposed new and evolving regulations related to the use of AI and machine learning technologies. The regulations may impose onerous obligations and may require us to unexpectedly rework or reevaluate improvements to be compliant. Use of AI technologies may expose us to an increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation. Moreover, some of the AI features involve the processing of personal data and may be subject to laws, policies, legal obligations, and codes of conduct related to privacy and data protection. AI development and deployment practices could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory enforcement, increased cybersecurity risks, reputational harm and legal liability. Risks Relating to our Insurance Operations We operate an insurance business through a reciprocal exchange, PIRE.We do not own PIRE but provide certain management services for which we receive compensation. The growth and financial health of PIRE directly affect our operating revenue and the payment of interest and principal on surplus notes we hold is uncertain. 21 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2025, we sold our insurance company subsidiary, HOA, to PIRE, a newly formed reciprocal insurance exchange organized under the laws of Texas. The formation of PIRE and its subsequent purchase of HOA were funded by surplus notes sold by PIRE to us totaling $47 million. These notes are in addition to a preexisting surplus note for $49 million issued by HOA to us, which HOA subsequently assigned to, and was assumed by, PIRE. Porchs Insurance Services business (a new segment as of January 1, 2025) serves as the attorney-in-fact of PIRE and is subject to requirements mandated by Texas Department of Insurance (TDI) to continue operating under its certificate of authority. We do not own PIRE but instead provide certain management services as its attorney-in-fact. We receive compensation in the form of commissions and fees calculated based on PIRE's gross written premium and policies in force. PIREs financial position and operating results are consolidated and presented with ours as if we are a single entity. As a result, our reported earnings and balance sheet remain subject to financial, legal and operational risks arising from PIREs insurance business even though we do not own it. As such, the growth and financial health of PIRE directly affect our operating revenue. While our long-term plan is to deconsolidate PIREs financial statements from our financial statements, our eventual ability to do so involves factors beyond our control and we may not be successful in achieving deconsolidation. Notwithstanding, as Porch does not own PIRE, Porch is not entitled to distributions of its profits or surplus. These limitations apply even while PIREs and our financial position and results of operations are deconsolidated. A significant portion of our revenues will come from fees and commissions on insurance premiums written by PIRE. PIRE will sell a new insurance product as a new insurance brand, subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no certainty when or whether such new brand and product expected to launch in fiscal 2025 will achieve market acceptance or be approved by the TDI on the terms we expect. If PIRE is unable to achieve market acceptance for the brand and product or grow or renew policies, the premium revenue of PIRE could be adversely affected, which could reduce our management fee and commission revenue. Circumstances or events that could impair PIREs ability to grow or renew policies include severe weather events, competition, loss of reinsurance, loss of financial strength ratings, losses in PIREs investment portfolio, legal, judicial or regulatory changes that we did not anticipate in our pricing and macroeconomic conditions including inflation. Similarly, agents and policyholders may choose to cancel or non-renew their policies following the reorganization of the insurance business we previously owned into a reciprocal exchange. The transfer of HOA to PIRE may result in price increases or a perception of additional risk to policyholders and they may choose to move their business to a competing insurer at or before renewal. Such cancellations or non-renewals could negatively impact our revenues. If the management fee and commissions we receive from PIRE are reduced or if there is a significant decrease in the amount of direct and affiliated assumed insurance premiums written by PIRE, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Similarly, price competition or the inability to obtain rate increases may limit the amount of fees and commissions we can charge. If the costs of providing services to PIRE exceed our management fees and commissions, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Porch will be the owner of the attorney-in-fact and will not possess any legal ownership in PIRE. An attorney-in-fact is a separate legal entity from a reciprocal exchange. PIREs governing body is an independent subscribers advisory committee (the SAC) over which the Company has no control and may in the future make decisions that are not in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders and, as such, we cannot guarantee that there will be no future disruptions in the management relationship between Porch and PIRE. We may be exposed to losses from PIREs insurance policies even though we dont own it. Our subsidiary serves as attorney-in-fact for PIRE and in that capacity undertakes certain obligations specified in its contracts with PIRE and its subscribers. These contractual obligations do not include responsibility for losses incurred under PIREs insurance policies. If PIRE becomes impaired or insolvent, a receiver or others may allege breaches of our contractual duties to PIRE as a contributing factor to such impairment or insolvency and may include losses under PIREs insurance policies as an element of alleged damages. We would defend against such allegations and damages vigorously. In the unlikely event that PIRE were to become insolvent, existing law allows the TDI to commence a receivership proceeding over PIRE. An exchange cannot be a debtor under the Federal Bankruptcy Code. A Texas receiver may be able to compel the attorney-in-fact to continue providing services to a reciprocal exchange that is involved in a receivership proceeding. A Texas receiver may also bring action against an attorney-in-fact within a receivership proceeding based on available theories of damages arising from the attorney-in-fact's management of PIRE. While various single business enterprise theories may also be asserted by a Texas receiver to obtain jurisdiction over the assets of an attorney-in-fact, the success of any such assertion of jurisdiction is uncertain under existing law and would be highly dependent upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time. The payment of interest and principal on surplus notes we hold is uncertain. We hold surplus notes issued by PIRE totaling $106 million. The notes are subordinated to all other indebtedness of PIRE, including policy liabilities. Payment of interest and principal are subject to satisfaction of specified risk-based capital levels and regulatory approval by the Texas Department of Insurance. There is no certainty that PIRE will meet those requirements or receive approval to pay us 22 Table of Contents interest and principal. Further, notwithstanding receipt of regulatory approval, there can be no guarantee that PIRE will be able to repay timely or all the interest and principal on the surplus notes we hold. If the management fee rate retained by Porchs insurance services businesses is reduced or if there is a significant decrease in the amount of direct and assumed premiums written by PIRE, revenues and profitability of the Company could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent upon management fees we retain from PIRE, which represent a significant source of revenue. As compensation for the services provided, Porch will receive ongoing commissions and policy fees equal to a blended take rate of approximately 20% of PIREs gross written premium. Therefore, management fee revenue from PIRE is calculated by multiplying the management fee rate by the direct and assumed premiums written by PIRE. Accordingly, any reduction in direct and assumed premiums written by PIRE and/or the management fee rate could have a negative effect on our revenues and net income. The management fee rate is determined by Porch and can be changed at any time in Porchs discretion. The process of setting the management fee rate includes, but is not limited to, the evaluation of current year operating results compared to both prior year and industry estimated results for both Porchs insurance services businesses and PIRE, and consideration of several factors for both entities including, but not limited to: their relative financial strength and capital position; projected revenue, expense and earnings for the subsequent year; future capital needs; as well as competitive position. The evaluation of these factors could result in a reduction to the management fee rate and our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. As the attorney-in-fact for subscribers in the reciprocal insurance exchange structure with PIRE as our sole customer, we are dependent on the financial condition of PIRE. If PIRE were to fail to maintain acceptable financial strength ratings, its competitive position in the insurance industry could be adversely affected. If a rating downgrade led to customers not renewing or canceling policies, or impacted PIREs ability to attract new customers, the premium revenue of PIRE could be adversely affected, which could reduce our management fee revenue and, in turn, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. PIRE is dependent on the use of reinsurance. The consolidated financial statements reflect the effects of reinsurance transactions. The primary purpose of reinsurance is to protect us, at a cost, from losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept and to protect our capital. Reinsurance is placed on both a quota-share and excess-of-loss basis. Ceded reinsurance arrangements do not discharge us as the primary insurer and if reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay or if we do not purchase sufficient reinsurance, it could seriously impact PIRE and our reinsurance captive. Additionally, net premiums written and earned by PIRE will be impacted by the amount of premiums PIRE cedes under their reinsurance transactions. The amount of profit commission PIRE receives, which reduces the amount of premiums PIRE cedes, is variable year-to-year and is dependent on the amount of losses ceded. Changes from one year to the next or within a year could substantially change the financial performance of PIRE, the amount of capital available for PIRE. The insolvency or termination of a reinsurance contract at one or more reinsurers of PIRE may expose PIRE and the Company to various risks that could materially and adversely affect PIREs and the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. As it relates to our captive reinsurer, Porticus Re, a significant and severe weather event could cause our captive, especially in the case of holding less amounts of third party reinsurance, to lose all or a significant portion of its collateral which may need to be replaced by Porch to ensure continued operations. Porticus Re, will carry this risk at least until March 31, 2025 when the current reinsurance terms will expire. In January 2024, we entered into a business collaboration agreement with Aon. Pursuant to this agreement with Aon, Aon made a cash payment to Porch in the amount of approximately $25 million plus will make an additional cash payment to us in 2025, and will share with our insurance carrier affiliates a percentage of the brokerage revenue received by Aon for the placement of reinsurance contracts on their behalf that incept or renew each calendar year from 2025 through 2028. If we breach the agreement, we may be required to refund certain of the amounts paid by Aon to us (or to our affiliates) under the Agreement, subject to customary cure rights. Among other things, we could breach the agreement through incidents outside of our control, such as a decrease in financial stability rating, or by directly or indirectly placing reinsurance with brokers unaffiliated with Aon. Any such required repayment upon a breach of the agreement could impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may change the structure of the reinsurance arrangement for PIRE and our reinsurance captive in the future, which may impact our overall risk profile and financial and capital condition. We may be unable to negotiate new reinsurance contracts to provide continuous coverage or negotiate reinsurance on the same terms and rates as are currently available, as such availability depends in part on factors outside of our control. A new contract may cost more, or may not provide sufficient reinsurance protection. Market forces and external factors, such as significant losses from hurricanes or terrorist attacks or an increase in capital requirements, has impacted, and likely to continue to impact, the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. If PIRE is unable to maintain our current level 23 Table of Contents of reinsurance, extend our reinsurance contracts or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient at current or acceptable prices, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure, reduce their insurance writings or develop or seek other alternatives. The unavailability of acceptable reinsurance protection would have an adverse impact on PIREs business model, which depends on reinsurance companies to absorb any unfavorable variance from the level of losses anticipated at underwriting. If PIRE is unable to obtain adequate reinsurance at reasonable rates, it would have to increase their risk exposure or reduce the level of their underwriting commitments, each of which could have a material adverse effect upon their business volume and profitability. Alternatively, PIRE could elect to pay higher than reasonable rates for reinsurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect upon their profitability until policy premium rates could be raised, in most cases subject to approval by state regulators, which could cause long delays to offset this additional cost. It is possible that Porticus Re may need to place portions of the catastrophe reinsurance program. As such, a significant and severe weather event could cause our captive to lose all or a significant portion of its collateral which may need to be replaced by the Company to ensure continued operations. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit PIREs ability to write new business. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects PIRE to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect it against losses, which could have a material effect on results of our operations and financial condition. Reinsurance is a contract by which an insurer, which may be referred to as the ceding insurer, agrees with a second insurer, called a reinsurer, that the reinsurer will cover a portion of the losses incurred by the ceding insurer in the event a claim is made under a policy issued by the ceding insurer, in exchange for a premium. PIRE obtains reinsurance to help manage its exposure to property and casualty insurance risks. Reinsurance is purchased annually, and capacity and acceptable pricing cannot be guaranteed, which may limit PIREs growth or financial strength rating. If reinsurance becomes unavailable at current levels or prices, our ability to write new business will be hindered. Although the reinsurance counterparties of PIRE are liable to PIRE according to the terms of the reinsurance policies, PIRE remains primarily liable to our policyholders as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance does not eliminate the obligation of PIRE and HOA, its insurance company subsidiary, to pay all claims, and PIRE is subject to the risk that one or more of its reinsurance reinsurers will be unable or unwilling to honor its obligations, that the reinsurers will not pay in a timely fashion, or that PIREs losses are so large that they exceed the limits specified in its reinsurance contracts, limiting recovery. Reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time that they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years, in which case PIRE may have no legal ability to recover what is due to it under its agreement with such reinsurer. Any disputes with reinsurers regarding coverage under reinsurance contracts could be time consuming, costly, and uncertain of success. The performance of PIREs and our reinsurance captives investment portfolios is subject to a variety of investment risks. The results of operations of PIRE and our reinsurance captive depend, in part, on the performance of their investment portfolios. PIRE and our reinsurance captive seek to hold a high-quality portfolio managed by a provider investment advisory firm in accordance with its investment policy and routinely reviewed by the internal management team. Investments, however, are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities. The values of PIREs and our reinsurance captives investment portfolios are subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of an issuers payments on such investments. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed income securities could also have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities. Such factors could reduce net investment income and result in realized investment losses, as well as negatively impact statutory capital. PIREs and our reinsurance captives investment portfolios are subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. carrying amount) of the securities that PIRE and our reinsurance captive hold in their portfolios does not reflect prices at which accrual transactions would occur. Risks for all types of securities are managed through the application of PIREs and our reinsurance captives investment policies, which establish investment parameters that include maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which they believe are within applicable guidelines established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. In addition, PIRE and our reinsurance captive seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with its insurance and reinsurance exposures, however, losses in their investment portfolios may occur at the same time as underwriting losses. 24 Table of Contents The financial strength ratings of PIRE and HOA, its insurance company subsidiary, could be downgraded. Financial strength ratings reflect a rating agencys opinion of PIREs and HOAs financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. The ratings of PIRE and HOA are subject to periodic review and there is no assurance that such ratings will not be changed. Rating agencies could change or expand their requirements or could find that PIRE and HOA no longer meet the criteria established for current ratings. Insolvencies or credit downgrades of our reinsurance partners could impact the rating agencys opinion of PIRE and HOAs financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders causing a downgrade or withdrawal of the rating. The current rating agency used for PIRE and HOA could go out of business or become unacceptable to partners of the insurance business we manage and operate, leaving the company without a rating until a new rating could be achieved with a different rating agency. There is no guarantee that another rating agency would have a similar rating and view of PIRE and HOA. If the financial strength ratings of PIRE and HOA were to be downgraded, our agents might find it more difficult to market our products or might choose to emphasize the products of other carriers and lenders, and would likely not accept insurance provided by PIRE and HOA as sufficient to protect their collateral. Either or both could have severe financial consequences for PIRE and HOA. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues in the insurance industry are uncertain. As industry practices, economic, legal, judicial, social, and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect PIRE and our reinsurance captive by either extending coverage beyond the underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: Plaintiffs targeting property and casualty (P&C) insurers in class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; Medical developments linking health issues to particular cases, resulting in liability claims; and Claims related to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies, including cyber-security related risks and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after affected insurance policies have been issued. As a result, the full extent of liability may not be immediately known, nor their financial impacts adequately provided for in premium charges. In addition, potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend statutes of limitations or otherwise repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on the insurance businesses we manage and operate. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are difficult to predict, could harm the insurance businesses we manage and operate, and materially adversely affect their results and operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the management fees we receive and our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain PIREs risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect its ability to maintain regulatory authority to conduct business. PIRE and HOA, its insurance company subsidiary, must have sufficient capital to comply with insurance regulatory requirements and maintain authority to conduct their business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital of U.S.-based insurers, known as risk-based capital that all states have adopted. This system establishes the minimum amount of capital necessary for an insurance company to support its overall business operations. It identifies insurers, including property-casualty insurers, that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurers assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. TDI requires PIRE to meet specific conditions related to surplus, net written premium, and risk-based capital in order to maintain its certificate of authority. If PIRE fails to meet these conditions, its certificate of authority may be suspended which means that it would not be authorized to sell insurance in the state of Texas. This would subsequently have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our wholly-owned, Cayman Islands-based captive reinsurer, Porticus Re, is subject to additional capital and other regulatory requirements imposed by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (CIMA). Although these capital requirements are generally less constraining than U.S. capital requirements, failure to satisfy these requirements could 25 Table of Contents result in regulatory actions from the CIMA or loss of or modification of Porticus Res Class B (iii) insurer license, which could adversely impact PIREs ability to improve its overall capital efficiency. PIRE may face additional capital and surplus requirements as compared to larger and more established competitors. Failure to maintain adequate risk-based capital at the required levels could result in increasingly onerous reporting and examination requirements and could adversely affect PIREs ability to maintain regulatory authority to conduct business. PIREs and our insurance captives loss reserves may be inadequate to cover actual losses. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of claims and do not represent a precise calculation of any ultimate liability. These estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency and severity of claims that may be reported in the future. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult, complex, and inherently uncertain process involving many variables and subjective judgments, Significant periods of time can elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of a claim, and payment of that claim. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of claims and do not represent a precise calculation of any ultimate liability of PIRE or our reinsurance captive. These estimates are based on the analysis of historical loss development patterns and on estimates of current labor and material costs. The various factors reviewed include: loss emergence, reporting and development patterns; underlying policy terms and conditions; business and exposure mix; trends in claims frequency and severity; changes in operations; emerging economic and social trends; inflation; and changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. It also assumes that adequate historical or other data exists upon which to make these judgments. There is no precise method for evaluating the impact of variances in estimates. If the actual amount of insured losses is greater than the amount reserved for these losses, the profitability of PIRE and our reinsurance captive could suffer. PIRE and our reinsurance captive could be forced to sell investments to meet liquidity requirements. PIRE and our reinsurance captive invest premiums until they are needed to pay policyholder claims. Consequently, PIRE and our reinsurance captive seek to manage the duration of their investment portfolios based on the duration of their losses and loss adjustment expenses payment cycles in order to ensure sufficient liquidity and to avoid having to unexpectedly liquidate investments, including the 18.3 million shares of Porch stock that HOA holds, to fund claims or increase surplus. In addition, unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. PIRE and our reinsurance captive may not be able to sell their investments at favorable prices or at all, and such sales may not reflect the intrinsic value of the investment. Sales of invested assets could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates, and credit issues with individual securities. Further, losses may impact surplus and require additional capital to fund statutory surplus requirements, which may not be available or available on terms that are not favorable to PIRE and our reinsurance captive. The failure to accurately and timely pay claims could harm the insurance businesses we manage and operate. Though the insurance businesses historically evaluated and paid claims timely and in accordance with its policies and statutory obligations, they must continue to manage costs and close claims expeditiously. Many factors affect the ability to evaluate and pay claims accurately and timely, including training and experience of claims staff, claims department s culture and the effectiveness of management, the ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support claims functions and other factors. The failure to accurately and timely pay claims could lead to regulatory and administrative actions or material litigation, undermine the insurance businesses reputation in the marketplace and materially and adversely affect their businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. If the insurance businesses we manage and operate are unable to hire, train and retain claims staff, their claims departments may be required to handle an increasing workload, which could adversely affect the quality of their claims administration, and could materially and adversely impact the fees we receive for managing and operating the insurance businesses, which in turn could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models or changes in accessibility to such models used to assess and predict PIREs exposure to catastrophic losses. Models developed internally and by third-party vendors are used along with our own historical data in assessing property insurance exposure to catastrophic losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios; however, they do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or measure losses currently incurred. Further, the accuracy of such models may be negatively impacted by changing climate conditions. Catastrophe models use historical information and scientific research about natural events, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as detailed information about PIREs in-force business. This information is used in connection with pricing and risk management activities. However, since actual catastrophic events vary considerably, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models, material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly incorporated into the models. Regulatory factors could impact the value at which HOA carries our shares on its statutory financial statements, negatively impact HOA regulatory surplus, and require us to take additional steps to enable HOA to adhere to regulatory requirements and maintain its financial stability rating. As a Texas domestic property and casualty insurer, HOA is subject to various regulatory requirements, including minimum surplus as regards to policyholders and requirements relating to the credit quality, liquidity and diversification of investments. The amount of surplus and investments maintained by HOA also impacts its financial stability rating. Pursuant to the contribution transactions described in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in