Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report and the risk factor, There can be no assurance that our planned formation of a reciprocal exchange will receive regulatory approval, and if obtained, that the approval would be based on terms as proposed or subject to additional requirements that may not be acceptable to the Company, in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Grow SaaS Businesses We plan to continue increasing utilization of our SaaS products and improving conversion and expect to launch new products to meet the needs of the individual companies we work with and consumers, while providing margin expansion opportunities and therefore driving profitability. Organizational Efficiency We will control costs, mature systems, and optimize capital allocation. Government Regulation General We are subject to laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet generally and through mobile applications, including laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for their operations and the activities of users. As a result, we could be subject to claims based on negligence, unfair business practices, various torts and trademark and copyright infringement, among other actions. 8 Table of Contents As we receive, transmit, store and use a substantial amount of information received from or generated by consumers and service professionals, we are impacted by state laws and regulations governing privacy, the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal data and data breaches. These regulations are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. For example, California passed a comprehensive data privacy law, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and other states including Virginia, Colorado, Utah, and Connecticut have also passed similar laws. These laws impose data protection obligations on covered businesses, including consumer rights procedures and obligations, limitations on data uses, audit requirements for higher risk data, and constraints on certain uses of sensitive data. The majority of the CPRA provisions were effective January 1, 2023. We are subject to laws governing marketing and advertising activities conducted by/through telephone, e-mail, mobile devices and the Internet, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR), the CAN-SPAM Act, Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar state laws, as well as federal, state, and local laws and agency guidelines governing background screening. We are also subject to certain laws and regulations with regard to the real estate settlement process, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which, among other matters, prohibits certain practices, such as kickbacks, referrals, and unearned fees for the referral of real estate settlement services. Furthermore, our moving services business is subject to various federal, state and local agencies that exercise broad regulatory powers over the moving industry, generally governing such activities as operations of and authorization to engage in transportation, insurance requirements, and licensing. Additionally, as we expand into the insurance business, which is highly regulated, we must comply with and maintain various licenses and approvals with individual state departments of insurance, and we are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. Insurance State Regulation Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent, and substance of such regulation varies by state but generally has its source in National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") model laws and regulations that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and may be adopted by each state regulatory agency. Moreover, the NAIC Accreditation Program requires state regulatory agencies to meet baseline standards of solvency regulation, particularly with respect to regulation of multi-state insurers. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use our insurance products, and not our shareholders. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including: insurance company licensing and examination; the licensing of insurance agents and adjusters; price setting or premium rates; underwriting rules and restrictions; trade practices; approval of policy forms; claims practices; restrictions on transactions between our subsidiaries and their affiliates, including the payment of dividends; investments; underwriting standards; advertising and marketing practices; capital adequacy; and the collection, remittance and reporting of certain taxes, licenses and fees. Insurance Holding Company Regulation Nearly all states have adopted the Model Insurance Holding Company System Regulation Act and Regulation as amended by the NAIC in December 2010 (the Amended Model Act). As part of an insurance holding company system, Homeowners of America Insurance Company (HOAIC), our insurance carrier, is required to register with the Texas Department of Insurance (the insurance supervisory agency of HOAICs state of domicile) and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Under these laws, the respective state insurance departments may examine us at any time, require disclosure of material transactions and require prior notice of or approval for certain transactions. All transactions within a holding company system affecting an insurer must have fair and reasonable terms and are subject to other standards and requirements established by law and regulation. Financial Solvency Ratios The NAIC annually calculates 13 financial ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. A usual range of results for each of these ratios is used by insurance regulators as a benchmark. Departure from the usual range on four or more of the ratios could lead to inquiries from individual state insurance 9 Table of Contents departments as to certain aspects of a company's business. In addition to the financial ratios, states also require us to calculate a minimum capital requirement for each of our insurance companies based on individual company insurance risk factors. These risk-based capital results are used by state insurance regulators to identify companies that require regulatory attention or the initiation of regulatory action. Restrictions on Shareholder Dividends Our insurance carriers capacity to pay dividends to shareholders is limited. Insurance companies must provide advance informational notice to the domicile state insurance regulatory authority prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders. Prior approval from the state insurance regulatory authority must be obtained before payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined under the state's insurance code. The amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid is subject to certain limitations, the amounts of which change each year. Price Regulation Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring our carrier to file rate schedules, policy or coverage forms, and other information within the state's regulatory authority. In certain states, rate schedules, policy forms, or both, must be approved prior to use. While insurance laws vary from state to state, their objectives are generally the same: an insurance rate cannot be excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory. The speed with which we can change our rates in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on the willingness of state regulators to allow adequate rates for the business we write. Insurance Reserves State insurance laws require that insurance companies analyze the adequacy of their reserves annually. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that our statutory reserves are adequate to meet policy claims-paying obligations and related expenses. Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies Most states regulate our carriers ability to exit a market. For example, states limit, to varying degrees, our ability to cancel and non-renew insurance policies. Some states prohibit us from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except upon prior regulatory approval. Regulations that limit policy cancellation and non-renewal may restrict our ability to exit unprofitable markets. Investment Regulation Our insurance business is subject to various state regulations requiring investment portfolio diversification and limiting the concentration of investments we may maintain in certain asset categories. Failure to comply with these regulations leads to the treatment of nonconforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, state regulations require us to sell certain nonconforming investments. Insurance Guaranty Associations Each state has insurance guaranty association laws. Membership in a state's insurance guaranty association is generally mandatory for insurers wishing to do business in that state. Under these laws, associations may assess their members for certain obligations that insolvent insurance companies have incurred with regard to their policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each solvent association member with an amount related to that member's proportionate share of business written by all association members within the state. Most state guaranty associations allow solvent insurers to recoup the assessments they are charged through future rate increases, surcharges or premium tax credits. However, there is no assurance that we will ultimately recover these assessments. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds under these laws. Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans State insurance regulations often require insurers to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations. These are mechanisms that generally provide applicants with various types of basic insurance coverage that may not otherwise be available to them through voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly instituted for automobile and workers' compensation insurance, but many states also mandate participation in Fair Access to Insurance Requirements Plans or Windstorm Plans, which provide basic property coverage. Participation is based upon the amount of a company's voluntary market share in a particular state for the classes of insurance involved. Policies written through these mechanisms may require different underwriting standards and may pose greater risk than those written through our voluntary application process. 10 Table of Contents Statutory Accounting Principles For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, state laws require us to calculate and report certain data according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies. Federal Regulation Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives and legislation often have an impact on our business. These initiatives and legislation include tort reform proposals, proposals addressing natural catastrophe exposures, terrorism risk mechanisms, federal financial services reforms, various tax proposals affecting insurance companies, and possible regulatory limitations, impositions and restrictions arising from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank). Human Capital Management By staying true to our core values (No Jerks/No Egos; Solve Each Problem; Be Ambitious; Care Deeply; and Together We Win), we have created a company where good people can do great work and drive shareholder value. These values guide us in everything we do, from individual everyday tasks to high-level strategic planning. They foster a culture of dialogue, collaboration, and recognition that contributes to our long-term success. We are organized in a decentralized operating model, which allows our businesses to move quickly and entrepreneurially leverage a common playbook and infrastructure that benefit from shared best practices as we scale. When we acquire a company, our decentralized operating model helps us maintain momentum and entrepreneurial culture while mitigating the risks associated with integration. In most cases, we integrate acquisitions into our (1) central data platform; (2) transactional monetization to drive our business-to-business-to-consumer revenues such as insurance and warranty; and (3) operational systems, such as accounting and payroll. We engage and empower our team with continued career and learning and development opportunities. Fostering a growth mindset facilitates a culture where all voices are heard and team members can take informed risks, ask questions, and seek creative solutions to tough problems. This approach helps us build a strong bench of leaders for tomorrows business challenges. We are a progressive organization which values environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) initiatives. Our ESG strategy reflects the relevant issues that are most important to Porch and our stakeholders. We released our initial ESG report in November 2023. Our diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging efforts are based on the principle that all Porch team members can bring their whole selves to work and thrive. We have a commitment throughout the organization for Porch to be a supportive and inclusive environment. We pride ourselves on our values-driven culture that fosters employee engagement and creates an attractive home for top talent. We were certified as a Great Place to Work in 2022 and 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had a total of 895 employees, which includes 864 full-time employees. We also utilize independent contractors in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that we generally have good relationships with our employees and contractors. Available Information Our main consumer website is www.porch.com, and our corporate and investor relations website is located at www.porchgroup.com. You may access our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) free of charge at www.porchgroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Neither the information on these websites, nor the information on the websites of any of our brands and businesses, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, any other filings with, or any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The following summary risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The summary risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also affect our business operations or financial results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our stock price, business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For more information, see below for more detailed descriptions of each risk factor. Our brands and businesses, including our insurance business, operate in an especially competitive and evolving industry. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to grow our insurance business by limiting attrition and building surplus and increasing our revenue by increasing the number of sales of home-related services per customer and consumer. We may not succeed in these efforts. The incidence, frequency and severity of weather events, extensive wildfires, and other catastrophes, particularly occurring where Porch has a concentration of homeowners insurance policyholders, or that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior in the industries we serve, could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance business and operations are subject to a variety of uncertainties, including, without limitation, regulatory approval of insurance rates, policy forms, insurance products, license applications, acquisitions of businesses or strategic initiatives, including our planned formation of the reciprocal exchange, and other matters within the purview of insurance regulators. We rely on strategic, proprietary relationships with third parties to provide us with access to personal data and product information. We may not be able to protect our systems, technology and infrastructure from cyberattacks and cyberattacks experienced by third parties may adversely affect us. If personal, confidential, or sensitive user information or property data that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate, and our reputation could be harmed. We rely on our ability to reach home services companies customers and home service-related consumers earlier than our competitors, and throughout the home buying and homeownership journey. Our efforts to develop new insurance products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, or make acquisitions may not be successful and may create enhanced risk. Our brands and businesses are sensitive to general economic events, trends and conditions, including those related to, without limitation, the housing and financial markets, which impacts the demand and costs for a portion of our products and services. Our businesses, including our insurance business, are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, which could limit growth and impose additional costs on us, and we must comply with such laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations and any changes or stricter interpretations of any of the foregoing (whether through private litigation or governmental action). We may be unable to access the capital markets when needed, which could adversely affect the ability to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise and to fund operations in a cost-effective manner. We may face negative consequences from the actions and omissions of our service providers, and our terms and conditions may not adequately protect us from claims. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Termination of a reinsurance contract due to distress at one of HOAs reinsurers may expose HOA and the Company to various risks that could materially and adversely affect HOAs and the Companys business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our insurance company subsidiary is dependent on the use of reinsurance. We may change the structure of our reinsurance arrangement in the future, which may impact our overall risk profile and financial and capital condition. There can be no assurance that our planned formation of a reciprocal exchange will receive regulatory approval, and if obtained, that the approval would be based on terms as proposed or subject to additional requirements that may not be acceptable to the Company. 12 Table of Contents The financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiary could be downgraded. Increases in parts, appliance and home system prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses, which could have a material effect on results of our operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain our insurance carriers risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiary to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. Our insurance businesses loss reserves may be inadequate to cover actual losses. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of the market, including research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality in consumer demand and historical weather trends, in addition to other factors associated with our industry. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We are subject to credit risk arising from the financial soundness of counterparties, including our reinsurance partners, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data is subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations and could give rise to liabilities and increased costs. Litigation and regulatory actions could distract management, increase our expenses or subject us to material monetary damages and other remedies. Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to make such payments. The conditional conversion features of the 2026 Notes and 2028 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Conversion of our 2026 Notes or 2028 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. We face risks associated with our independent contractors. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain, attract and integrate qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. We may experience risks related to acquisitions and divestitures which could adversely affect our financial results. The price of the Companys securities may change significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment as a result. Nasdaq may delist the Companys securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors ability to make transactions in its securities and subject the Company to additional trading restrictions. The summary risk factors described above should be read together with the text of the full risk factors below and in the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, as well as in other documents that we file with the SEC. If any such risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks are more fully described below, and these risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Porchs Business and Industry Our brands and businesses, including our insurance business, operate in an especially competitive and evolving industry. Our brands and businesses operate in home-related product and service industries, which include insurance, mortgage software, title insurance software, warranty, moving services, inspection software, home repair, and marketing, financial and other software for home services companies; all of which are competitive, evolving, and some of which are highly regulated. There are many existing competitors and a consistent and growing stream of new entrants, services and products. Some of our competitors are well-established, have greater functional and compliance maturity, or have better competitive positions with respect to certain geographical areas, consumer and service provider demographics, and/or types of services offered. Some of our competitors have stronger brand name recognition, better economies of scale, more developed software platforms or other intellectual property, and/or better access to capital. Additionally, the home and home-related 13 Table of Contents services industries continue to undergo consolidation and vertical integration, which may make it more difficult to compete with existing competitors and new entrants. Any of these advantages could enable these competitors to reach more consumers and service providers than we reach, offer products and services that are more appealing to consumers and service providers than our products and services, and respond more quickly and/or cost effectively than we respond to evolving market opportunities and trends, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, our innovative business model and our limited track record as a public company may cause confusion in the market such that failures of our competitors or companies operating in similar or adjacent spaces may impact consumer or investor perceptions of the digital home services industry as a whole. If we are unable to compete effectively against competitors, services or products or if we are unable to establish or maintain a consumer brand that resonates with customers and/or enhance our existing brands and the brands of our recently acquired companies, or if we are unable to maintain high customer satisfaction or compete with the pricing offered by our competitors, the result could be decreases in the size and level of engagement of our consumer and service provider bases, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to grow our insurance business by limiting attrition and building surplus and increasing our revenue by increasing the number of sales of home-related services per customer and consumer. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our future growth is dependent in part on our ability to grow our insurance business. The insurance industry is highly competitive and regulated, and our growth depends on our ability to continue to obtain reinsurance at levels and pricing favorable to us, manage risk, limit policy attrition, obtain regulatory alignment on our business plans and financials, and continue to build surplus to support additional growth, which may require raising capital if unable to grow organically. There can be no assurances we will be successful in these efforts. Our future growth also depends in part on increasing the revenue generated from each customer or consumer we serve. We plan on increasing this revenue by increasing the number of value-add touchpoints with customers and consumers for whom we have access rights by offering new services and by improving conversion rates and revenue generation of both existing and new services. There can be no assurances we will be successful in these efforts. Failure to increase revenue per customer or consumer may slow our growth, which could in turn have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth therefore depends, in part, on our ability to attract new customers, maintain existing customers, sell additional products and services to existing customers, and increase prices. This depends on our ability to understand and anticipate customers needs and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality services and products. If we fail to engage new customers, continue to re-engage with our existing customers or to cross-sell additional services, our operating results could be materially impacted. The incidence, frequency and severity of weather events, extensive wildfires, and other catastrophes, particularly occurring where Porch has a concentration of homeowners insurance policyholders, or that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior in the industries we serve, could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, severe weather events and the effects of climate change, including, tornado and hail events, hurricanes extensive wildfires, drought, storms, flooding, and other catastrophes, and the frequency of such events, as well as the impacts of future global pandemics and other health crises, may harm our insurance business. For example, as it relates to our insurance carrier entity, we will be directly exposed to a portion of these losses. As it relates to our captive reinsurer, Porticus Re, a significant and severe weather event could cause our captive to lose all or a significant portion of its collateral which may need to be replaced by Porch to ensure continued operations. While we intend to manage our risk via reinsurance, there can be no guarantee this will adequately reduce our exposure to losses due to various risks inherent in reinsurance generally and with our reinsurance program, including, but not limited to, the inability to negotiate reinsurance contracts at renewal at acceptable terms or at all, our limited number of reinsurance partners, large catastrophes that exceed our aggregate reinsurance coverage limits, the inability or unwillingness of counterparties to pay us reinsurance receivables we believe we are owed, multiple losses in a single year that exceed our ability to reinstate reinsurance contracts, and the potential for fraud or misrepresentation committed by our reinsurance partners. The availability of reinsurance and its price are generally determined in the reinsurance market by conditions beyond our control and can be negatively impacted by such severe weather events and the effects of climate change, including, tornado and hail events, hurricanes, extensive wildfires, drought, flooding and other catastrophes, and the frequency of such events, as well as the impacts of future global pandemics and other health crises, may harm our insurance business. Additionally, a significant increase in insurance claims and the cost of the claims by consumers who purchase our insurance could reduce our access to reinsurance. These events have in the past and could in the future negatively affect the economy in general, and the housing and home services markets in particular. 14 Table of Contents These events and trends could also result in decreased marketing and advertising expenditures by service providers or cash flow problems for service providers that could affect their ability to pay us subscription fees, their ability to purchase leads from us and the success of any revenue sharing arrangements with them or could result in service providers decreasing and/or delaying subscription fees paid for our platform or being more likely to default on incurred fees, which would result in decreased revenue. Any of these events that could negatively affect the home industries we serve and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our brands and businesses may not be successful or cost-effective. Attracting home services companies and consumers to our brands and businesses involves considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing and sales. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant marketing expenditures, primarily for digital marketing such as paid search engine marketing, display advertising and third-party affiliate agreements. These efforts may not be successful or cost-effective. Our ability to market our brands on any given property or channel is subject to the policies of the relevant third-party seller or publisher of advertising or marketing affiliate. As a result, we cannot assure you that these parties will not limit or prohibit us from purchasing certain types of advertising, advertising certain of our products and services and/or using one or more current or prospective marketing channels in the future. If a significant marketing channel took such an action generally, for a significant period of time and/or on a recurring basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to comply with the policies of third-party sellers, publishers of advertising and/or marketing affiliates, our advertisements could be removed without notice and/or our accounts could be suspended or terminated, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure to respond to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of marketing channels, as well as changing policies and guidelines applicable to digital advertising, which may unilaterally be updated by search engines without advance notice, could adversely affect our digital marketing efforts and free search engine traffic. Such changes could adversely affect the placement and pricing of paid listings, as well as the ranking of our brands and businesses within search results, any or all of which could increase our marketing expenditures, particularly if free traffic is replaced with paid traffic. Additionally, our competitors may engage in marketing strategies and search engine optimization techniques that increase the relative ranking of their brands and businesses within search engine results at the expense of our rankings within such search results. This could have a negative impact on the results of our search engine marketing efforts. Any or all of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on strategic, unique relationships with third parties to provide us with access to derive personal data and information, and property data. We rely on strategic relationships with third parties, including home services companies, to provide us with access to derive personal information, including property data, about their customers in exchange for giving such companies access to our ERP and CRM services or other value. In the future, any of these third parties could sever its relationship with us, change its data sharing policies, including making them more restrictive, or alter its own data collection practices, any of which could result in the loss of, or significant impairment to, our ability to access, collect and use personal information about their customers or consumers. We also license data from third-party data brokers and other data suppliers. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to access, collect or use personal information or property data provided by consumers, service providers and commercial partners as we currently do or may want to do in the future. Our ability to access, collect and use personal information and property data provided by these parties may be adversely affected by federal and state laws and regulations that make it burdensome for us to collect or use personal information and property data. Additionally, our collection and use of personal information or property data may cause privacy concerns of the individuals from whom we collect personal information, privacy and reputational concerns of commercial partners that provide us with end customer personal information and property data, and adverse consumer reaction to our marketing practices. This could cause us to lose customers and reduce the number of commercial partners using our platforms. We also use consumer data that we directly collect from consumers or license from third parties to engage in targeted marketing based upon such consumer data and their online behavior. Practices in this industry are under scrutiny by federal and state law enforcement agencies and regulators in light of new and proposed federal and state laws, and pressure from some lawmakers and privacy advocates regarding how consumer data is collected and used in the ad tech industry. If we are unable to collect information from our customers or our service providers and commercial partners do not continue to provide us with information of their customers, or if applicable laws prohibit or materially impair our use of such information, our ability to provide services to consumers and drive consumer access to service providers may be materially 15 Table of Contents impacted. This may make our products, services and pricing for such products and services less appealing to consumers and service providers, which in turn may lead to reduced utilization of our products and services. To the extent any of the foregoing occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. We may not be able to protect our systems, technology and infrastructure from cyberattacks and cyberattacks experienced by third parties may adversely affect us. If personal, confidential, or sensitive user information or property data that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate, and our reputation could be harmed. We receive, process, store and transmit a significant amount of personal, confidential or sensitive personal information and property data about consumers that use our products and services, as well as our employees. While we continuously develop and maintain systems designed to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of this information, we cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information. When such events occur, we may not be able to remedy them, we may be required by law to notify regulators, impacted individuals and commercial partners, and it may be costly to mitigate the impact of such events and to develop and implement protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring. If we or any third party that we engage to host our platforms or to otherwise store or process data experience a breach of security, third parties could gain unauthorized access to personal data about our users and subscribers. As a result, or associated with any required regulatory disclosures, we could face governmental enforcement actions, significant fines, litigation (including consumer class actions), claims for breach of contract and/or indemnity by third parties, and harm to the reputation of our brands and business, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A single breach could result in claims for damages or indemnification from many counterparties. Any such breach or other unauthorized access could indirectly harm the reputation of our brands and businesses and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we do not experience such events firsthand, the impact of any such events experienced by third parties including service providers, could indirectly harm the reputation of our brands and businesses and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be attacked by perpetrators of malicious technology-related events, such as the use of botnets, malware or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing, attempts to misappropriate user information and account login credentials, ransomware attempts, and other similar malicious activities including malicious activities from internal bad actors. The incidence of events of this nature is on the rise worldwide. While we continuously develop and maintain systems designed to detect and prevent events of this nature from impacting our systems, technology, infrastructure, products, services and users, have invested and continue to invest in these efforts and related personnel and training, and deploy data minimization strategies where appropriate, our efforts may not be successful. These efforts, which include developing and maintaining the systems of recently acquired companies, are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome preventative security measures are becoming more sophisticated. Despite these efforts, some of our systems have experienced past security incidents, none of which had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we could experience significant events of this nature in the future. Any event of this nature that we experience could damage our systems, technology and infrastructure and/or those of our users, prevent us from providing our products and services, compromise the integrity of our products and services, damage our reputation, erode our brands and/or be costly to remedy, and may subject us to investigations by regulatory authorities, fines, claims for breach of contract or indemnity by third parties and/or litigation that could result in liability to third parties. Even if we do not experience such events firsthand, the impact of any such events experienced by third parties could have a similar effect. Our business model relies in large part on selling or otherwise providing certain consumer personal information to third parties. These third parties may be subject to similar cyberattacks and there can be no assurance that such third parties have adequate cybersecurity infrastructure to prevent breaches of the personal data sold to them by us. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses resulting from any of the above events. If we or any third party with whom we do business or otherwise rely upon experience an event of this nature, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on our ability to reach home services companies customers and home service-related consumers earlier than our competitors, and throughout the homebuying and homeownership journey. Our competitors could find ways to reach these customers and consumers earlier than us or at other times during the homebuying and homeownership journey. Our consumer access model allows us to market and offer services to home services companies customers very early and throughout the homebuying and homeowning journey. We also have relationships with commercial partners that provide us with data about consumers who may require a variety of home services early and throughout the homebuying and homeownership journey. There can be no assurances that we will continue to receive access to these customers and consumers relative to our competitors. Our competitors may adopt a similar model or may develop a new model that 16 Table of Contents affords them similar or earlier access. Any erosion of our competitive advantage in access to home services companies customers and home service-related consumers may impair future opportunities to monetize those customers and impact our retention rates, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we capture early access to home services companies customers, if we are unable to convert that access into sales of our services and products, it could negatively impact revenue growth and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to communicate with home services companies, consumers and service providers via telephone, text (SMS) messaging, email, direct mail or other sufficient means is critical to our success. Our primary means of facilitating contact among us, home services companies, consumers and service providers is the use of telephone calls, text (SMS) messages and email. We also communicate with these parties through direct mail messages. Through these channels, we provide consumers with service request updates and service providers with updates regarding consumer matches, jobs they take, subscriptions and memberships, as well as present or suggest new products and services (among other things) and market our products and services in a cost-effective manner to home services companies, consumers and service providers. As consumers increasingly communicate via mobile and other digital devices and messaging and social media apps, usage of certain channels such as telephone, email or direct mail has declined, particularly among younger consumers, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, regulatory, deliverability and other restrictions could limit or prevent our ability to these channels to communicate with home services companies, consumers and service providers. The use of internet to reach consumers or service providers are subject to various laws and regulations governing digital commerce, the internet, mobile applications, search engine optimization, behavioral advertising, privacy and email marketing, and the enforcement of laws and regulations, including further development and adoption of new laws and regulations in this area may have a negative impact on our business. Furthermore, third-party operators of the channels we use to communicate with these groups may face pressure from regulators to give end users the ability to block, mute or otherwise disfavor certain types of marketing communications via such channels. We cannot assure you that any alternative means of communication will be as effective as our current messaging channels have been. A continued and significant erosion in our ability to communicate with these groups for any reason could adversely impact the overall user experience, consumer and service provider engagement levels and conversion rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on the continued migration of the home and home-related services market online. We believe that the digital penetration of the home and home-related services market remains low, with the vast majority of consumers continuing to search for, select and hire service providers offline. While many consumer demographics have been and remain averse to finding service providers online, others have demonstrated a greater willingness to purchase such services online. Whether or not service providers turn to Internet platforms will depend, in substantial part, on whether online products and services help them to better connect and engage with consumers relative to traditional offline efforts. The speed and ultimate outcome of the transition of the home and home-related services market online for consumers and service providers is uncertain and may not occur as quickly as we expect, or at all. The failure or delay of a meaningful number of consumers and/or service providers to migrate online and/or the return of a meaningful number of existing participants in the online home services market to offline solutions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to develop new insurance products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, or make acquisitions may not be successful and may create enhanced risk. Our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted insurance markets, improve business processes and workflows, or make acquisitions may require us to make substantial expenditures and may not be successful, and even if successful, they may create additional risks including, but not limited to: Changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk. Models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. Demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations. New products or services and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those used in existing markets or with existing products. 17 Table of Contents Acquisitions may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial disruption, costs, or delays, and adversely affecting our ability to compete, and may also result in unforeseen liabilities or impact our credit ratings, and In connection with the conversion of policyholders to a new product, some policyholders pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. These efforts may require substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our brands and businesses are sensitive to general economic events, trends and conditions, including those related to, without limitation, the housing and financial markets, which impact the demand for certain of our products and services. Our businesses are sensitive to events and trends, such as a general economic downturn, health of the housing market, inflation or sudden disruption in business conditions, a recession or fears of a recession, consumer confidence, spending levels and access to credit, which could result in decreases in demand for insurance, home mortgages, warranty, moving and inspection services, home repair, and marketing, financial and other software for home services companies and providers. Any such decreases could result in turnover of our consumer and service provider base and/or adversely impact the breadth of services offered through our service market platform, our home-related services, and our warranty and insurance products. Demand for certain of our products and services generally decreases as the number of housing purchasing and refinance transactions decrease. The housing market is seasonal, cyclical and affected by significant conditions beyond our control. The number of housing transactions in which certain of the Companys products and services are purchased have been, and may continue to be, impacted by the following situations, among others: high, volatile or rising mortgage interest rates; availability of credit, including commercial and residential mortgage funding; real estate affordability, housing supply rates, home building rates, housing foreclosures rates, multi-family housing fundamentals, and the pace of home price appreciation or the lack of it; slow economic growth or recessionary conditions and other macroeconomic conditions, which may be impacted by national or global events (such as the COVID-19 pandemic); local, state and federal government intervention in the financial markets; increased unemployment or declining or stagnant wages; changes in household debt levels and disposable income; changing trends in consumer spending; fewer homebuyers electing to get a home inspection; and changing expectations for inflation and deflation. Any adverse impact on a macro level to the housing or financial markets generally could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to access the capital markets when needed, which could adversely affect the ability to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise and to fund operations in a cost-effective manner. Our ability to grow our business may depend in part on the ability to access capital when needed to strategically grow our operations and provide statutory surplus to grow our insurance business. Capital markets may become illiquid from time to time, and we cannot predict the extent and duration of future economic and market disruptions or the impact of any government interventions. We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require capital but cannot raise it or cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and we may be unable to execute our long-term growth strategy. If we are unable to deliver effective customer service, it could harm our relationships with our existing home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners and adversely affect our ability to attract new home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to satisfy our home services companies, consumers and service providers, both by providing access to services that address the needs of consumers and service providers and providing services and software-based solutions to home services companies that address their business needs. Our customer support personnel 18 Table of Contents also sell our products and services. If our sales efforts are not satisfactory, consumers may choose not to do business with us, or we may suffer reputational costs. Additionally, our home services companies, consumers and service providers depend on our customer support personnel to resolve technical issues relating to the use of our products and services. We may be unable to respond quickly to accommodate short-term increases in demand for support services or may otherwise encounter a customer service issue that is difficult to resolve. If a home services company, consumer or service provider is not satisfied with the quality or responsiveness of our customer service, we could incur additional costs to address the situation or the home services company, service provider, or consumer (and commercial partners who provide us with their customers data) may choose not to do business with us or we may suffer reputational costs. As we do not separately charge our home services companies, consumers and service providers for support services, increased demand for our support services would increase costs without corresponding revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the quality or responsiveness of our customer service efforts, home services companies, consumers, service providers and commercial partners that are not satisfied with outcomes may choose to terminate, or not to renew, their relationships with us. Certain parts of our business are highly dependent on the ease of use of our products and services and positive recommendations from our existing home services companies, consumers and service providers. Any failure to maintain high-quality or responsive customer service, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality or responsive customer service, could harm our reputation, cause us to lose home services companies, consumers or service providers and adversely impact our ability to sell our products and services to prospective consumers. We may face negative consequences from the actions and omissions of our service providers, and our terms and conditions may not adequately protect us from claims. Under our agreements with consumers and service providers, our service providers, and not us, are responsible for the actions and omissions of our service providers. However, consumers may still bring claims against us for actions and omissions of service providers, and the service providers may deny responsibility for or be unable to pay any resulting liability. Additionally, certain agreements with our commercial partners obligate us to indemnify such commercial partners against third-party claims resulting from the actions and omissions of the service providers we engage to provide services to consumers referred to us by those commercial partners. These claims may be expensive and may divert managements time away from our operations. We may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses resulting from these claims, and too many or certain types of claims may result in increased premiums or denial of coverage. In addition, we may be deemed, correctly or incorrectly, a contractor with respect to our service providers, which may subject us to licensure and/or bonding requirements and may subject us to penalties for past operations. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In general, our consumers and our service providers agree to our customer terms and conditions by accessing our services online. However, some consumers or service providers who access our services only by phone, and consumers who come to us from third-party lead sources, may not click through to our terms and conditions. If consumers or service providers do not agree to our terms and conditions for any reason, we may face increased litigation risk, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and monetize versions of our products and services for mobile and other digital devices. As consumers increasingly access products and services through mobile and other digital devices, we will need to continue to devote significant time and resources to develop new applications and functionalities to ensure that our products and services are accessible across these platforms. If we do not keep pace with evolving online, market and industry trends, including the introduction of new and enhanced digital devices and changes in the preferences and needs of consumers and service providers generally, offer new and/or enhanced products and services in response to such trends that resonate with consumers and service providers, monetize products and services for mobile and other digital devices as effectively as our traditional products and services and/or maintain related systems, technology and infrastructure in an efficient and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the success of future mobile and other digital products and services depends on their interoperability with various third-party operating systems, technology, infrastructure and standards, including rapidly evolving mobile data privacy standards, over which we have no control. Any changes to any of these things that compromise the quality or functionality of our mobile and other digital products and services could adversely affect their usage levels and/or our ability to attract consumers and service providers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The nature of our platform is complex and highly integrated, and if we fail to successfully manage releases or integrate new solutions, it could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We manage a complex platform of solutions that consists of our software and services for companies and products for consumers. Many of our solutions include a large number of product centers that are highly integrated and require interoperability with other Porch products, as well as products and services of third-party service providers. Due to this complexity and the development cycles under which we operate, we may experience errors in our software, corruption or loss of our data or unexpected performance issues from time to time. For example, our solutions may face interoperability difficulties with software operating systems or programs being used by our customers, or new releases, upgrades, fixes or the integration of acquired technologies may have unanticipated consequences on the operation and performance of our other solutions. If we encounter integration challenges or discover errors in our solutions late in our development cycle, it may cause us to delay our launch dates. Any major integration or interoperability issues or launch delays could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely upon trademarks, trade dress, domain names and logos to market our brands and businesses and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions on access to and use of proprietary information with employees, independent contractors, home services companies, consumers, service providers, commercial partners, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our and their various intellectual property rights. No assurances can be given that these efforts will result in adequate trademark and service mark protection, adequate domain name rights and protections. Despite these measures, challenges to our intellectual property rights could still arise, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization, and/or laws regarding the enforceability of existing intellectual property rights could change in an adverse manner. We may also be subject to claims from third parties in the future related to alleged intellectual property infringement by us. These claims, if resolved in a manner adverse to us, could result in significant liabilities and could restrict or prohibit our ability to use the technology on which we rely. Even if these claims are resolved in our favor, such claims could result in significant expenses and could distract our management until resolved. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our various brands and limitations on our ability to operate our business, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Insurance Business Termination of a reinsurance contract due to distress at one of HOAs reinsurers may expose HOA and the Company to various risks that could materially and adversely affect HOAs and the Companys business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the third quarter of 2023, HOA, a subsidiary of Porch Group, discovered that for one of its reinsurance contracts for which capital was arranged by Vesttoo, there were allegations of fraudulent activity in connection with collateral provided to HOA and certain other third parties which allegations have now been confirmed. As a result, and in accordance with the terms of the reinsurance agreement, HOA terminated the associated contract on August 4, 2023, with an effective date of July 1, 2023. Had HOA not terminated the contract, the contract would have expired on its own terms on December 31, 2023. The agreement with this reinsurer provided coverage for 40% of HOAs core book and coverage up to approximately $175 million in a catastrophic event. Following the effective date of the termination, HOA seized approximately $47.6 million in available liquid collateral from a reinsurance trust, of which HOA was the beneficiary. In addition, HOA has secured supplemental reinsurance coverage in the amount of approximately $146.3 million, replacing nearly all of the reinsurance coverage for certain catastrophic weather events that was in place under the terminated reinsurance contract. HOA is currently seeking additional supplemental reinsurance coverage in order to maintain adequate coverage in future periods against potential excess losses in the event of a severe weather event for which it has not obtain supplemental coverage and to satisfy regulatory and rating agency requirements. Regardless of whether additional supplemental coverage is obtained, HOA will continue to remain obligated with respect to all claims and claim settlement expenses under its policies, including claims incurred but not yet reported for prior periods, and claims and expenses that are no longer subject to the reimbursement rights in favor of HOA under the terminated reinsurance contract and for which HOA has not obtained adequate supplemental coverage. The Company intends to pursue its rights with respect to the letter of credit required by the reinsurance contract in the amount of $300 million as additional collateral, which advisors to the issuing bank have alleged is invalid. The Company was 20 Table of Contents appointed to the statutory committee of unsecured creditors in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy of Vesttoo and intends to pursue recovery for all losses and damages incurred. Notwithstanding the receipt of supplemental reinsurance coverage, the TDI placed HOA under its supervision following the release of HOAs statutory accounts for the quarter ending June 30, 2023, and Demotech subsequently withdrew its financial stability rating. The Company worked closely with the TDI to restore surplus to an appropriate level following HOAs placement under TDI supervision and made a $57 million cash investment into HOA to increase surplus in exchange for a $49 million surplus note and the purchase of all rights from HOA for potential claims related to the fraud connected to Vesttoo and others. In addition, HOA submitted a formal operational plan to the TDI for its review and worked closely with both the TDI and Demotech to resolve their concerns to exit supervision and regain its financial stability rating. On November 2, 2023, the TDI released HOA from regulatory supervision and on November 8, 2023 Demotech reinstated HOAs A rating. Termination of the reinsurance contract, the events that followed as described in this risk factor, and other events that may occur in the future directly or indirectly as a result of the termination of the reinsurance contract and alleged fraud committed by Vesttoo and others, could subject HOA and the Company to significant and unforeseen risks. Any or all of the known and other unknown and unforeseen risks could have a material and adverse impact on HOAs and the Companys business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks associated with: the surplus note, including HOAs ability to make timely payments of principal and interest, repay the surplus note in full, and the Companys ability to recover any unpaid amounts to the extent HOA is unable to repay the principal and interest in full; enforcing and recovering the collateral underlying the letter of credit and pursuing potential claims related to the fraud connected to Vesttoo and others, including the time and expense associated with pursuing potential claims and the uncertainty associated with obtaining any recoveries in excess of costs, and the uncertainty of obtaining any recoveries at all; the reciprocal exchange, including the impact TDIs previous regulatory supervision of HOA may have on the timing and approval of the reciprocal exchange; securing and maintaining sufficient replacement reinsurance coverage on terms and costs favorable to HOA to maintain adequate coverage in future periods against potential excess losses in the event of a severe weather event for which HOA has not obtained adequate supplemental coverage, and to satisfy regulatory and rating agency requirements; maintaining adequate surplus levels to satisfy regulatory requirements; and HOAs continuing ability to stay out of regulatory supervision and maintain its financial stability rating. We face a variety of risks through our expansion into the insurance business. In 2021, we expanded our insurance operations through the acquisition of HOA, a leading property and casualty insurance company focused on products in the residential homeowner space. We are a full-service insurance company operating in 22 states exposing us to the regulatory risk of complying with insurance laws that vary by state as well as underwriting and claims management risk. Other risks of our entry into the insurance business include, without limitation, difficulties integrating the new insurance business with our ongoing operations, potential diversion of managements time and other resources from our previously-established lines of business, the need for additional capital and other resources to expand into this new line of business, and inefficient integration of operational and management systems and controls. We bear the cost of paying insured claims. As a result, the likelihood of being significantly affected by the risks inherent to the insurance industry, and the magnitude of such risks, are increased. Claims costs may be adversely affected by increases in costs of home repair as a result of inflated material costs, supply chain shortages, increases in labor costs, and demand surge during catastrophic events. In addition, prices for raw materials, such as lumber and steel, are subject to market volatility. We cannot predict the extent to which our insurance carrier business line may experience future increases in claims costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers. Such increases in costs could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Although we follow the industry practice of transferring, or ceding, part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk or securing excess of loss reinsurance coverage, we may not be able to successfully mitigate our risk through such reinsurance arrangements. Although reinsurance would make the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred to the reinsurer or we have coverage 21 Table of Contents under an excess of loss reinsurance arrangement, it will not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. If any of our reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay amounts they owe us in a timely fashion, we could suffer a significant loss or a shortage of liquidity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, reinsurance may not be available for an acceptable cost or at all. Failure to successfully mitigate an acceptable portion of our risk could materially and adversely affect our ability to write insurance business and harm our business. If our actual losses from insured claims were to exceed our loss reserves, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The Company has implemented a reinsurance program, which includes the use of a captive reinsurer. Under this arrangement, the captive owned by the Company serves as the reinsurer, and the consolidated books and tax returns of the Company reflect a liability consisting of the full reserve amount attributable to the reinsured business, which is significantly higher than previous years insurance related liabilities. The success of the Companys captive reinsurance program is dependent on a number of factors outside the control of the Company, including, but not limited to, weather events, continued access to financial solutions, a favorable regulatory environment, and the overall tax position of the Company. If the captive reinsurance program is not successful, the Companys financial condition could be adversely impacted. Additionally, capital held by the captive cannot be used elsewhere within the Company without applicable regulatory pre-approval. HOA is highly dependent on maintaining successful relationships with third-party independent agents and agencies. Negative changes in such relationships could adversely affect HOAs insurance business, including, but not limited to, reduced sales, the loss of existing policies, the need to lower prices, or the need to pay higher commissions. In addition, although such agents/agencies are appointed as independent contractors with the authority to solicit and bind insurance policies on HOAs behalf any misconduct on their part could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, reputation and results of operations. We are also subject to the cyclical nature of the insurance industry. The financial performance of the insurance industry has historically fluctuated with periods of lower premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition followed by periods of higher premium rates and reduced underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Although the financial performance of an insurance company depends on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of many insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Because the cyclical nature of the market is due in large part to the actions of competitors and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We may change the structure of our reinsurance arrangement in the future, which may impact our overall risk profile and financial and capital condition. We may be unable to negotiate new reinsurance contracts to provide continuous coverage or negotiate reinsurance on the same terms and rates as are currently available, as such availability depends in part on factors outside of our control. A new contract may cost more, or may not provide sufficient reinsurance protection. Market forces and external factors, such as significant losses from hurricanes or terrorist attacks or an increase in capital requirements, has impacted, and likely to continue to impact, the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance, extend our reinsurance contracts or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient at current or acceptable prices, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure, reduce our insurance writings or develop or seek other alternatives. The unavailability of acceptable reinsurance protection would have an adverse impact on our business model, which depends on reinsurance companies to absorb any unfavorable variance from the level of losses anticipated at underwriting. If we are unable to obtain adequate reinsurance at reasonable rates, we would have to increase our risk exposure or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, each of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business volume and profitability. Alternatively, we could elect to pay higher than reasonable rates for reinsurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect upon our profitability until policy premium rates could be raised, in most cases subject to approval by state regulators, which could cause long delays to offset this additional cost. There can be no assurance that our planned formation of a reciprocal exchange will receive regulatory approval, and if obtained, that the approval would be based on terms as proposed or subject to additional requirements that may not be acceptable to the Company. There can be no assurance that the Texas reciprocal exchange (the Reciprocal) will commence business. In 2023, we filed an application to form and license the Reciprocal with the Texas Department of Insurance (TDI). Applications of this nature involve intensive dialog with regulators that can result in material changes to all aspects of the business plan originally presented, including changes that could cause Porch to terminate and not proceed with its plans to form the Reciprocal. Matters within the scope of the TDIs review include but are not limited to those listed below: the adequacy of the Reciprocal's and HOAICs capitalization and methods used to capitalize it; 22 Table of Contents the terms of the Reciprocal's governing documents, including the compensation paid to the attorney-in-fact; the premiums to be charged by the Reciprocal and the benefits offered to its subscribers; the amount and duration of the subscriber contribution paid by its subscribers the Reciprocals relationship with Porticus Re and HOAs managing general agency, including reinsurance premium, commissions and fees charged by them for services as general agent; the powers and composition of the Reciprocals subscribers' committee; and the terms of sale of HOAIC to the Reciprocal. Insurance is regulated on a state-by-state basis. Approval by the TDI, if obtained, applies only to the Reciprocal's ability to operate in Texas. Expansion outside of Texas will require additional state-by-state applications, with each application subject to dialog with state regulators that can result in changes unfavorable the Reciprocal, including changes that could cause Porch to terminate plans to expand the Reciprocal into specific states. Under existing GAAP, we expect the Reciprocal will consolidate with Porch for financial reporting purposes. While deconsolidation of the Reciprocal from Porch is a goal, there is no assurance that our plan for achieving deconsolidation will be successful, nor can there be any assurance that deconsolidation will be achieved in the future. Accordingly, all the risk factors identified in this section that currently adversely affect our existing insurance business will continue to adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations if the Reciprocal successfully commences business. If Porchs plans are implemented, the sole sources of insurance income available to Porch will be (a) the management fee received by its subsidiary that will serve as the attorney-in-fact (AIF) of the Reciprocal, (b) commissions and fees charged by HOAs managing general agency and AIF for services as general agent and (c) reinsurance premiums paid by the Reciprocal to Porticus Re, our Cayman Islands captive reinsurance company. An attorney-in-fact's income is the product of two factors: (a) the gross written premium paid to the reciprocal exchange by subscribers plus reinsurance premiums paid to the reciprocal exchange by affiliated insurers, multiplied by (b) the percentage of gross written premium set by the reciprocal exchange's governing documents. Porch has proposed governing documents that set a maximum fee, but allow the attorney-in-fact to set a lower fee. There are various factors that can influence the attorney-in-facts decision to set the fee at a specific level including, but not limited to, the reciprocal exchange's financial strength, capital position, projected revenue and expenses and competitive position in the market. If the amount of gross written premiums paid to the Reciprocal decreases for any reason, the fee revenue of the attorney-in-fact will correspondingly decrease. The risk factors that adversely affect insurance sales within our existing insurance businesses will apply to insurance sales by the Reciprocal. As an entirely new entity, there can be no assurance how the Reciprocal will be received by consumers, regulators, rating agencies, and entities that historically refer business to HOA. Our efforts to encourage a transition of policyholders from HOAIC to the Reciprocal may result in a number of existing HOAIC policyholders shifting their business to other insurers, leading to a decrease in the overall level of premium currently written in the insurance segment of our business. Likewise, if the fee percentage decreases, the fee revenue to the attorney-in-fact will correspondingly decrease. Events that may result in a decrease in an attorney-in-fact's fee include, but are not limited to price competition, regulatory disapproval of our rates or the AIF fee. An attorney-in-fact is a separate legal entity from a reciprocal exchange. The reciprocal exchange is managed by an independent subscribers committee over which Porch will have no control. Porch will be the owner of the attorney-in-fact and will not possess any legal ownership in the reciprocal exchange. If the Reciprocal, through its subscribers committee, terminates Porch as its attorney-in-fact, Porch will no longer have access to the attorney-in-fact fees or reinsurance premiums as sources of revenue and a significant portion of revenue from the insurance business. Additionally, Porch would lose access to the admitted insurance carrier. A reciprocal exchange has no mechanism by which dividends or distributions of profits can be paid to an attorney-in-fact. The sale of HOAIC to the Reciprocal will result in Porch no longer having access to dividends from HOAIC. Except for the fees and commissions paid to the AIF and Homeowners of America MGA, Inc, Porch will derive no cash flow benefit from profitable operating results in the Reciprocal or HOAIC. Nothing in the laws governing Texas reciprocal exchanges makes an attorney-in-fact liable for losses incurred by a reciprocal exchange. Nevertheless, Porch, through its ownership of the AIF, will have an interest in the financial condition of the Reciprocal. If the Reciprocal fails to maintain acceptable levels of financial strength and ratings, its competitive position in the market would be adversely affected. Anything that adversely affects premium income to the Reciprocal 23 Table of Contents results in decreased fee revenue to the AIF. Porch may, for various business reasons impossible at present to predict, decide to provide additional surplus to the Reciprocal in response to future adverse financial developments in the Reciprocal's business. Nothing herein, however, constitutes a commitment by Porch to make contributions to the surplus of the Reciprocal under any circumstances. In the unlikely event that the Reciprocal were to become insolvent, existing law allows the TDI to commence a receivership proceeding over the Reciprocal. An exchange cannot be a debtor under the Federal Bankruptcy Code. A Texas receiver may be able to compel the attorney-in-fact to continue providing services to a reciprocal exchange that is involved in a receivership proceeding. A Texas receiver may also bring action against an attorney-in-fact within a receivership proceeding based on available theories of damages arising from the attorney-in-fact's management of the reciprocal exchange. While various single business enterprise theories may also be asserted by a Texas receiver to obtain jurisdiction over the assets of an attorney-in-fact, the success of any such assertion of jurisdiction is uncertain under existing law and would be highly dependent upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time. The material risks to Porch from operating its insurance business through a reciprocal exchange may differ considerably from risks described herein due to requirements imposed on Porch and the Reciprocal by the TDI as conditions for approving the formation and licensing of the Reciprocal, or by insurance regulators in other states as conditions for granting insurance licenses to the Reciprocal, which requirements cannot be known at this time. The financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiary could be downgraded. Financial strength ratings reflect a rating agencys opinion of our insurance company subsidiarys financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. Our ratings are subject to periodic review and there is no assurance that our ratings will not be changed. Rating agencies could change or expand their requirements or could find that our insurance company subsidiary no longer meet the criteria established for current ratings. Insolvencies or credit downgrades of our reinsurance partners could impact the rating agencys opinion of our insurance company subsidiarys financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders causing a downgrade or withdrawal of the rating. The current rating agency used for the insurance business could go out of business or become unacceptable to partners of the insurance business, leaving the company without a rating until a new rating could be achieved with a different rating agency. There is no guarantee that another rating agency would have a similar rating and view of the company. If our insurer financial strength ratings were to be downgraded, our agents might find it more difficult to market our products or might choose to emphasize the products of other carriers and lenders would be likely to not accept our insurance as sufficient to protect their collateral. Either or both could have severe financial consequences for our insurance company subsidiary. Increases in parts, appliance and home system prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our home warranty business line may be adversely affected by increases in the level of our operating expenses, such as refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, healthcare, contractor costs, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary and other pressures. Such increase in operating expenses, including contract claims costs, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Prices for raw materials, such as steel and fuel, are subject to market volatility. We cannot predict the extent to which our home warranty business line may experience future increases in costs of refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, healthcare, contractor costs, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs and other operating costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues in the insurance industry are uncertain. As industry practices, economic, legal, judicial, social, and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our insurance businesses by either extending coverage beyond the underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: Plaintiffs targeting property and casualty (P&C) insurers in class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; Medical developments linking health issues to particular cases, resulting in liability claims; and 24 Table of Contents Claims related to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies, including cyber-security related risks and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after affected insurance policies have been issued. As a result, the full extent of liability may not be immediately known, nor their financial impacts adequately provided for in premium charges. In addition, potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend statutes of limitations or otherwise repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our insurance businesses. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are difficult to predict and could harm our insurance businesses and materially adversely affect their results and operations. Our insurance company subsidiary is dependent on the use of reinsurance. Our consolidated financial statements reflect the effects of reinsurance transactions. The primary purpose of reinsurance is to protect us, at a cost, from losses in excess of the amount it is prepared to accept and to protect our capital. Reinsurance is placed on both a quota-share and excess-of-loss basis. Ceded reinsurance arrangements do not discharge us as the primary insurer and if reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay or if we do not purchase sufficient reinsurance, it could seriously impact our insurance company subsidiary. Additionally, our net premiums written and earned will be impacted by the amount of premiums we cede under our reinsurance transactions. The amount of profit commission we receive, which reduces the amount of premiums we cede, is variable year-to-year and is dependent on the amount of losses ceded. Changes from one year to the next or within a year could substantially change the financial performance of our insurance company subsidiary, the amount of capital available for our insurance company subsidiary or both. In January 2024, we entered into a business collaboration agreement with Aon. Pursuant to this agreement with Aon, Aon made a cash payment to Porch in the amount of approximately $25 million plus will make an additional cash payment to us in 2025, and will share with our insurance carrier affiliates a percentage of the brokerage revenue received by Aon for the placement of reinsurance contracts on their behalf that incept or renew each calendar year from 2025 through 2028. If we breach the agreement, we may be required to refund certain of the amounts paid by Aon to us (or to our affiliates) under the Agreement, subject to customary cure rights. Among other things, we could breach the agreement through incidents outside of our control, such as a decrease in financial stability rating, or by directly or indirectly placing reinsurance with brokers unaffiliated with Aon. Any such required repayment upon a breach of the agreement could impact our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to accurately and timely pay claims could harm our insurance businesses. Though our insurance businesses historically evaluated and paid claims timely and in accordance with its policies and statutory obligations, they must continue to manage costs and close claims expeditiously. Many factors affect the ability to evaluate and pay claims accurately and timely, including training and experience of claims staff, claims department s culture and the effectiveness of management, the ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support claims functions and other factors. The failure to accurately and timely pay claims could lead to regulatory and administrative actions or material litigation, undermine our insurance businesses reputation in the marketplace and materially and adversely affect their businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. If our insurance businesses are unable to hire, train and retain claims staff, their claims departments may be required to handle an increasing workload, which could adversely affect the quality of their claims administration, and could materially and adversely impact our business. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses, which could have a material effect on results of our operations and financial condition. Reinsurance is a contract by which an insurer, which may be referred to as the ceding insurer, agrees with a second insurer, called a reinsurer, that the reinsurer will cover a portion of the losses incurred by the ceding insurer in the event a claim is made under a policy issued by the ceding insurer, in exchange for a premium. HOA obtains reinsurance to help manage its exposure to property and casualty insurance risks. Reinsurance is purchased annually, and capacity and acceptable pricing cannot be guaranteed, which may limit HOAs growth or financial strength rating. If reinsurance becomes unavailable at current levels or prices, our ability to write new business will be hindered. Although our reinsurance counterparties are liable to us according to the terms of the reinsurance policies, we remain primarily liable to our policyholders as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance does not eliminate the obligation of our insurance company 25 Table of Contents subsidiary to pay all claims, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of our reinsurers will be unable or unwilling to honor its obligations, that the reinsurers will not pay in a timely fashion, or that our losses are so large that they exceed the limits specified in our reinsurance contracts, limiting recovery. Reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time that they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years, in which case we may have no legal ability to recover what is due to us under our agreement with such reinsurer. Any disputes with reinsurers regarding coverage under reinsurance contracts could be time consuming, costly, and uncertain of success. Failure to maintain our insurance carriers risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiary to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. We must have sufficient capital to comply with insurance regulatory requirements and maintain authority to conduct our business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital of U.S.-based insurers, known as risk-based capital that all states have adopted. This system establishes the minimum amount of capital necessary for an insurance company to support its overall business operations. It identifies insurers, including property-casualty insurers, that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurers assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Similarly, our wholly-owned, Cayman Islands-based captive reinsurer, Porticus Re, is subject to additional capital and other regulatory requirements imposed by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (CIMA). Although these capital requirements are generally less constraining than U.S. capital requirements, failure to satisfy these requirements could result in regulatory actions from the CIMA or loss of or modification of Porticus Res Class B(iii) insurer license, which could adversely impact our ability to improve our overall capital efficiency. As a mid-sized carrier expanding its national presence, we may face additional capital and surplus requirements as compared to those of our larger and more established competitors. Failure to maintain adequate risk-based capital at the required levels could result in increasingly onerous reporting and examination requirements and could adversely affect our ability to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. Our insurance businesses loss reserves may be inadequate to cover actual losses. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of claims and do not represent a precise calculation of any ultimate liability. These estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency and severity of claims that may be reported in the future. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult, complex, and inherently uncertain process involving many variables and subjective judgments, Significant periods of time can elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of a claim, and payment of that claim. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of claims and do not represent a precise calculation of any ultimate liability of our insurance businesses. These estimates are based on the analysis of historical loss development patterns and on estimates of current labor and material costs. The various factors reviewed include: loss emergence, reporting and development patterns; underlying policy terms and conditions; business and exposure mix; trends in claims frequency and severity; changes in operations; emerging economic and social trends; inflation; and changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. It also assumes that adequate historical or other data exists upon which to make these judgments. There is no precise method for evaluating the impact of variances in estimates. If the actual amount of insured losses is greater than the amount reserved for these losses, our insurance businesses profitability could suffer. The performance of our insurance businesses investment portfolios is subject to a variety of investment risks. The results of operations of our insurance businesses depend, in part, on the performance of their investment portfolios. Our insurance businesses seek to hold a high-quality portfolio managed by a provider investment advisory firm in accordance with its investment policy and routinely reviewed by the internal management team. Investments, however, are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities. 26 Table of Contents The values of our insurance businesses investment portfolios are subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of an issuers payments on such investments. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed income securities could also have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities. Such factors could reduce our insurance businesses net investment incomes and result in realized investment losses, as well as negatively impact its statutory capital. Our insurance businesses investment portfolios are subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. carrying amount) of the securities our insurance businesses hold in their portfolio does not reflect prices at which accrual transactions would occur. Risks for all types of securities are managed through the application of our insurance businesses investment policies, which establish investment parameters that include maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which they believe are within applicable guidelines established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. In addition, our insurance businesses seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with its insurance and reinsurance exposures, however, losses in their investment portfolios may occur at the same time as underwriting losses. Our insurance businesses could be forced to sell investments to meet liquidity requirements. Our insurance businesses invest premiums until they are needed to pay policyholder claims. Consequently, our insurance businesses seek to manage the duration of their investment portfolios based on the duration of their losses and loss adjustment expenses payment cycles in order to ensure sufficient liquidity and to avoid having to unexpectedly liquidate investments to fund claims. In addition, unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. Our insurance businesses may not be able to sell their investments at favorable prices or at all. Sales of invested assets could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates, and credit issues with individual securities. Further, losses may impact surplus and require additional capital to fund statutory surplus requirements, which may not be available or available on terms that are not favorable to the Company. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models or changes in accessibility to such models used to assess and predict our exposure to catastrophic losses. Models developed internally and by third-party vendors are used along with our own historical data in assessing property insurance exposure to catastrophic losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios; however, they do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or measure losses currently incurred. Further, the accuracy of such models may be negatively impacted by changing climate conditions. Catastrophe models use historical information and scientific research about natural events, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as detailed information about our in-force business. This information is used in connection with pricing and risk management activities. However, since actual catastrophic events vary considerably, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models, material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly incorporated into the models. Risks Relating to Financial Reporting and Results of Operations We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could have resulted in material misstatements in our financial statements and in the inability of our independent registered public accounting firm to provide an unqualified audit opinion which could have a material adverse effect on us. As a public company, we are required to comply with the SECs rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. As disclosed under Item 9A.