Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of PowerFleet, Inc. and its subsidiaries (PowerFleet, we, our or us) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in Part I, Item 1 of this report. In the following discussions, most percentages and dollar amounts have been rounded to aid presentation, and, accordingly, all amounts are approximations. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), which may include information concerning the Companys beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, strategies, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures and other information that is not historical information. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond the Companys control, and which may cause the Companys actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words seek, estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, contemplate, plan, continue, intend, believe and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based upon the Companys current expectations and various assumptions. The Company believes there is a reasonable basis for its expectations and beliefs, but there can be no assurance that the Company will realize its expectations or that its beliefs will prove to be correct. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those expressed as forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited, to: future economic and business conditions; the ability to recognize the anticipated benefit of the acquisition of Pointer Telocation Ltd. (Pointer); the loss of any of the Companys key customers or reduction in the purchase of the Companys products by any such customers; the failure of the markets for the Companys products to continue to develop; the possibility that the Company may not be able to integrate successfully the business, operations and employees of I.D. Systems, Inc. (I.D. Systems) and Pointer; the Companys inability to adequately protect its intellectual property; the Companys inability to manage growth; the effects of competition from a wide variety of local, regional, national and other providers of wireless solutions; changes in laws and regulations or changes in generally accepted accounting policies, rules and practices; changes in technology or products, which may be more difficult or costly, or less effective, than anticipated; the effects of outbreaks of pandemics or contagious diseases, including the length and severity of the recent global outbreak of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 and its impact on the Companys business; and other risks detailed from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including the Companys annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. There may be other factors of which the Company is currently unaware or which it currently deems immaterial that may cause its actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on the Companys behalf apply only as of the date they are made and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, or otherwise. The Company makes available through its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports and other filings made by the Company with the SEC, as soon as practicable after the Company electronically files such reports and filings with the SEC. The Companys website address is www.powerfleet.com. The information contained in the Companys website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Overview PowerFleet, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, PowerFleet, the Company, we, our or us) is a global leader and provider of subscription-based wireless Internet-of-Things (IoT) and machine-to-machine (M2M) solutions for securing, controlling, tracking, and managing high-value enterprise assets such as industrial trucks, trailers, containers, cargo, and light vehicles and heavy truck fleets. 25 On October 3, 2019, PowerFleet, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, PowerFleet, the Company, we, our or us) completed the acquisition of Pointer Telocation Ltd. (the Transactions), as a result of which I.D. Systems, Inc. (I.D. Systems) and PowerFleet Israel Ltd. (PowerFleet Israel) each became direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company and Pointer Telocation Ltd. (Pointer) became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Prior to the Transactions, PowerFleet had no material assets, did not operate any business and did not conduct any activities, other than those incidental to its formation and the Transactions. I.D. Systems was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the Transactions. As a result, the historical financial statements of I.D. Systems for the periods prior to the Transactions are considered to be the historical financial statements of PowerFleet and the results of Pointer have been included in the Companys consolidated financial statements from the date of the Transactions. We are headquartered in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, with offices located around the globe. Our patented technologies address the needs of organizations to monitor and analyze their assets to improve safety, increase efficiency and productivity, reduce costs, and improve profitability. Our offerings are sold under the global brands PowerFleet, Pointer and Cellocator. We deliver advanced mobility solutions that connect assets to increase visibility operational efficiency and profitability. Across our vertical markets we differentiate ourselves by developing mobility platforms that collect data from unique sensors and by being OEM agnostic and helping mixed fleets view and manage their assets homogeneously. All of our solutions are paired with software as a service, or SaaS and analytics platforms to provide an even deeper level of insights and understanding of how assets are utilized and how drivers and operators operate those assets. These insights include a full set of operational Key Performance Indicators, or KPIs, to drive operational and strategic decisions. Our customers typically get a Return on their Investment in less than 12 months from deployment. The analytics platform and machine learning capabilities, which are integrated into our customers management systems, are designed to provide a single, integrated view of asset and operator activity across multiple locations that provides enterprise-wide benchmarks and peer-industry comparisons. We look for analytics, as well as the data contained therein, to differentiate us from our competitors, make a growing contribution to revenue, add value to our solutions, and help keep us at the forefront of the wireless asset management markets we serve. We market and sell our wireless mobility solutions to a wide range of customers in the commercial and government sectors. Our customers operate in diverse markets, such as automotive manufacturing, retail, food and grocery distribution pharmaceutical and medical distribution, logistics, shipping, freight transportation, heavy industry, wholesale distribution, manufacturing, aerospace and vehicle rental. PowerFleet for Industrial (part of our Supply Chain Solutions Product Group) Our PowerFleet for Industrial solutions are designed to provide on-premise or in-facility asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for industrial trucks such as forklifts, man-lifts, tuggers and ground support equipment at airports. These solutions are broken down into five groups: Essence, Expert, Enterprise, Safety, and Aviation and utilize a variety of communications capabilities such as Bluetooth , WiFi, and proprietary RF. Essence is designed for low density fleets. It consists of an easy-to-install, out-of-the-box-ready hardware and software solution. It provides electronic record keeping and safety checklists and is automated. There is no need for IT departments with this solution, and it is designed to keep small business operations regulatory compliant, efficient, and cost effective. Expert is designed for medium density fleets. It is designed for multi-site visibility, reporting, and analytics. It provides regulatory compliance and live events by leveraging a companys existing Wi-Fi network. It delivers centralized recording, management reports & robust graphing. 26 Enterprise is for high density fleets with a global footprint. It improves safety and provides global visibility, advanced analytics, and drives regulatory compliance and live event reporting by leveraging a companys Wi-Fi network. Safety consists of a broad range of equipment for powered industrial vehicles such as lights and alarms, camera systems, vehicle speed throttles, seatbelt systems, digital speedometers, weighing devices, safety systems, and anti-theft solutions. Aviation enables visibility into airport ramp personnel and assets through real-time visibility and reporting, access control, and geo-fenced security. PowerFleet for Logistics (part of our Supply Chain Solutions Product Group) Our PowerFleet for Logistics solutions are designed to provide bumper-to-bumper asset management, monitoring, and visibility for over-the-road based assets (heavy trucks, dry-van trailers, refrigerated trailers, shipping containers, etc.) and their associated cargo. These systems provide mobile-asset tracking and condition-monitoring solutions to meet the transportation markets desire for greater visibility, safety, security, and productivity throughout global supply chains. By leveraging a combination of cellular, Bluetooth , and satellite communications and web-based data management technologies, our Logistics Visibility product family provides shippers and carriers with tools to better manage their tractors, drivers, trucks, refrigerated (Reefer) trailers, dry van trailers, chassis and container fleets. Our Logistics Visibility solutions enable quick access to actionable intelligence that results in better utilization, control, safety, compliance, and security of our customers freight-carrying assets. Our Logistics Visibility solutions consist of a combined hardware and software as a service solution that are designed to focus on providing robust IoT monitoring, measuring, and management of the following asset types: Tractors (e.g. Class 7-8 Vehicles): Our solutions sit in the cab of the truck. They are designed to be regulatory compliant (e.g. Electronic Logging Devices or ELDs) solutions that provide real-time position reports, workflow management, inspection reporting, engine performance information, two-way communication with the driver, and full Transportation Management System (TMS) integration. Dry Van Trailers: By using asset tracking technology that leverages solar-powered super-capacitors and long-lasting batteries, along with options connected to external power, we offer a variety of mobility platforms that vary by power source and price to provide extended years of maintenance-free asset tracking and IoT performance. Our FreightCAM cargo sensor camera takes actual high definition pictures of the cargo in the dry van trailer and using machine learning can determine cube, floor space, how the trailer is loaded, identify load shifts, and help our customers customer know how to unload the cargo. Refrigerated Trailers / Containers: Our reefer mobility platform is integrated with all major refrigeration unit brands and sensors to allow complete remote two-way control combined with powerful dashboard and in easy-to-read reports on the status of cold chain products and cargo. Our system allows our customers to proactively manage their reefer loads versus other solutions that merely monitor temperature. Chassis: We provide multiple interoperable mobility platform options, which vary by power source and price, for continuous real-time visibility of these assets while in transit, as well as more accurate arrival and departure information to better plan supply chain resource allocation. Our new weight-on-axle sensor and our algorithms for determining if the chassis has a container on it or not enable our customers to better optimize chassis utilization and improve their billing for chassis rentals. Shipping Containers: We deliver full visibility of containers from the moment they are moved from the yard to the instant they reach their final destination to increase container utilization and reduce transit cycle times. Our container solutions also integrate with our FreightCAM enabling our container customers to get the same benefits as our dry van customers. Cargo: Images, door sensors, and cargo-area environmental sensors (temperature, humidity, shock, etc.) for true freight visibility, root cause analysis for claims - including location and visual proof. We have unique and patent pending machine learning processes that can determine volume, load status, shifts in transit and help consignees know how to plan for unloading cargo. 27 To increase asset utilization, our Logistics Visibility solutions can improve overall operating efficiency, increase revenue per mile, reduce claims and claims processing times, and reduce the number of assets needed by delivering our customers. This is achieved through proving such things as two-way integrated workflows for drivers, control assignments and work change, Electronic Driver Logging (ELD) and inspections for regulatory compliance, monitoring of asset pools and geofence violations, and various reporting insights that flag under-utilized assets, the closest assets, and alerts on exceeding the allotted time for loading and unloading. To better control remote assets, our Logistics Visibility solutions provide our customers with technology that enables the identification of a change in cargo status, geo-fencing alerts when an asset is approaching or leaving its destination, and on-board intelligence utilizing a motion sensor and proprietary logic that identifies the beginning of a drive and the end of a drive. Lastly, to help improve asset and cargo security, our Logistics Visibility solutions allow our customers to enable things such as asset lockdown with automated e-mail or text message, emergency tracking of assets (higher frequency of reports) if theft is expected, geo-fencing alerts when an asset enters a prohibited geography or location, and near real-time sensors that alert based on changes in temperature and shock, among other things. PowerFleet for Vehicles (includes automotive, rental, smaller service and delivery vans) Our PowerFleet for Vehicles solutions are designed both to enhance the vehicle fleet management process, whether its a rental car, a private fleet, or automotive original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, partners. We achieve this by providing critical information that can be used to increase revenues, reduce costs and improve customer service. For example, our rental fleet management system automatically uploads vehicle identification number, mileage and fuel data as a vehicle enters and exits the rental lot, which can significantly expedite the rental and return processes for travelers, and provide the rental company with more timely inventory status, more accurate billing data that can generate higher fuel-related revenue, and an opportunity to utilize customer service personnel for more productive activities, such as inspecting vehicles for damage and helping customers with luggage. Our solution for car sharing permits a rental car company to remotely control, track and monitor their rental vehicles wherever they are parked. Whether for traditional pod-based rental or for the emerging rent-anywhere model, the system, through APIs integrated into any rental companys fleet management system, (i) manages member reservations by smart phone or Internet, and (ii) charges members for vehicle use by the hour. For our customers with a variety of make-model-years in their fleet, we have developed an unmatched library of certified vehicle code interfaces through our second-generation On-Board Diagnostics, or OBD-II, industry standard. Our patented fleet management system helps fleet owners improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Our fleet management solutions allow our customers to monitor their fleet vehicles using a web-based application that can monitor various parameters, including but not limited to, vehicle location, speed, engine fault codes, driver behavior, eco-driving, and ancillary sensors and can receive reports and alerts, either automatically or upon request wirelessly via the internet, email, mobile phone or an SMS. We also provide stolen vehicle retrieval, or SVR, services, predominantly in Israel. Most of the SVR products used to provide our SVR services are mainly sold to (i) local car dealers and importers that in turn sell the products equipped in the vehicle to the end users who purchase the SVR services directly from us, or (ii) leasing companies which purchase our SVR services in order to secure their own vehicles. In addition, in order to increase the added value services for our car dealer customers and end users, we have developed a connected car solution which we provide based on the car infotainment system, which as of the date of this report, is offered by us in Israel only. While the connected car solution enables the car dealer to preserve continuance relationship with the end users, it provides the end users with a friendlier and richer user interface and enables us to expand our consumer target market to vehicles which do not require SVR services. Analytics and Machine Learning Our analytics platforms provide our customers with a holistic view of their asset activity across their enterprise. For example, in our PowerFleet for Logistics solutions, our image machine learning system allows us to process images from our freight camera and other sources and identify key aspects of operations and geospatial information such as location, work being accomplished, type of cargo, how cargo is loaded and if there are any visible issues such as damage. Our cloud-based software applications provide a single, integrated view of industrial asset activity across multiple locations, generating enterprise-wide benchmarks, peer-industry comparisons, and deeper insights into asset operations. This enables management teams to make more informed, effective decisions, raise asset performance standards, increase productivity, reduce costs, and enhance safety. 28 Specifically, our analytics platforms allow users to quantify best-practice enterprise benchmarks for industrial asset utilization and safety, reveal variations and inefficiencies in asset activity across both sites and geographic regions, or identify opportunities to eliminate or reallocate assets, to reduce capital and operating costs. We look for analytics and machine learning to make a growing contribution to drive platform and SaaS revenue, further differentiate our offerings and add value to our solutions and help keep us at the forefront of the wireless mobility markets we serve, although there can be no assurance if and to what extent analytics will do so. We also use our analytics platform for our own internal platform quality control. Services Hosting Services . We provide the use of our systems as a remotely hosted service, with the system server and application software residing in our colocation center or on a cloud platform providers infrastructure (e.g., Azure, AWS). This approach helps us reduce support costs and improve quality control. It separates the system from the restrictions of the customers local IT networks, which helps reduce their system support efforts and makes it easier for them to receive the benefits of system enhancements and upgrades. Our hosting services are typically offered with extended maintenance and support services over a multi-year term of service, with automatic renewals following the end of the initial term. Software as a Service. We provide system monitoring, help desk technical support, escalation procedure development, routine diagnostic data analysis and software updates services as part of the ongoing contract term. These services ensure deployed systems remain in optimal performance condition throughout the contract term and provide access to newly developed features and functions on an annual basis. Maintenance Services . We provide a warranty on the hardware components of our system. During the warranty period, we either replace or repair defective hardware. We also make extended maintenance contracts available to customers and offer ongoing maintenance and support on a time and materials basis. Customer Support and Consulting Services . We have developed a framework for the various phases of system training and support that offer our customers both structure and flexibility. Major training phases include hardware installation and troubleshooting, software installation and troubleshooting, train-the-trainer training on asset hardware operation, preliminary software user training, system administrator training, information technology issue training, ad hoc training during system launch and advanced software user training. Increasingly, training services are provided through scalable online interactive training tools. Support and consulting services are priced based on the extent of training that the customer requests. To help our customers derive the most benefit from our system, we supply a broad range of documentation and support including videos, interactive online tools, hardware user guides, software manuals, vehicle installation overviews, troubleshooting guides, and issue escalation procedures. We provide our consulting services both as a stand-alone service to study the potential benefits of implementing a wireless fleet management system and as part of the system implementation itself. In some instances, customers prepay us for extended maintenance, support and consulting services. In those instances, the payment amount is recorded as deferred revenue and revenue is recognized over the service period. Recent Developments The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant economic disruption and continues to adversely impact the broader global economy, including certain of our customers and suppliers. Given the dynamic nature of this situation, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of COVID-19 on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows into the foreseeable future. The ultimate extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company is highly uncertain and will depend on future developments, and such effects could exist for an extended period of time even after the pandemic subsides. Risks to Our Business We expect that many customers who utilize our solutions will do so as part of a large-scale deployment of these solutions across multiple or all divisions of their organizations. A customers decision to deploy our solutions throughout its organization will involve a significant commitment of its resources. Accordingly, initial implementations may precede any decision to deploy our solutions enterprise-wide. Throughout this sales cycle, we may spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the benefits of our solutions, and there can be no assurance that our solutions will be deployed on a wider scale by the customer. 29 The timing of the deployment of our solutions may vary widely and will depend on the specific deployment plan of each customer, the complexity of the customers organization and the difficulty of such deployment. Customers with substantial or complex organizations may deploy our solutions in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of our limited operating history and the nature of our business, we cannot predict the timing or size of these sales and deployment cycles. Long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to place large orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. These variations could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to increase our revenues and generate net income will depend on a number of factors, including, for example, our ability to: increase sales of products and services to our existing customers; convert our initial programs into larger or enterprise-wide purchases by our customers; increase market acceptance and penetration of our products; and develop and commercialize new products and technologies. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $40.2 million and working capital of $53.3 million. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operating activities, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facility. To date, we have not generated sufficient cash flow solely from operating activities to fund our operations. We believe that our available working capital, anticipated level of future revenues, expected cash flows from operations and available borrowings under its revolving credit facility with Bank Hapoalim B.M. will provide sufficient funds to cover capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Additional risks and uncertainties to which we are subject are described under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Critical Accounting Policies For the three-month period ended June 30, 2021, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 30 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating information expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 2021 2020 2021 Revenue: Products 36.5 % 46.1 % 40.0 % 43.0 % Services 63.5 % 53.9 % 60.0 % 57.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Revenue: Cost of products 23.4 % 32.4 % 27.1 % 30.4 % Cost of services 22.1 % 19.8 % 21.8 % 20.8 % 45.5 % 52.2 % 48.9 % 51.2 % Gross profit 54.5 % 47.8 % 51.1 % 48.8 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 47.2 % 40.0 % 48.2 % 43.2 % Research and development expenses 10.0 % 8.3 % 10.2 % 8.8 % Total operating expenses 57.2 % 48.3 % 58.4 % 52.0 % Loss from operations -2.7 % -0.5 % -7.3 % -3.2 % Interest income 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % Interest expense -5.8 % -3.7 % -2.4 % -1.1 % Other income (expenses) net, 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss before income taxes -8.4 % -4.2 % -9.6 % -4.3 % Income tax benefit (expense) -1.8 % -0.1 % -1.2 % -0.9 % Net loss before non-controlling interest -10.2 % -4.3 % -10.8 % -5.2 % Non-controlling interest 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss -10.2 % -4.3 % -10.8 % -5.2 % Accretion of preferred stock -0.6 % -0.5 % -0.6 % -0.5 % Preferred stock dividend -3.8 % -3.1 % -3.4 % -3.3 % Net loss attributable to common shareholders -14.6 % -7.9 % -14.8 % -9.0 % 31 Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 REVENUES. Revenues increased by approximately $7.7 million or 30.2%, to $33.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $25.8 million in the same period in 2020. Revenues from products increased approximately $6.1 million, or 64.6%, to 15.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $9.4 million in the same period in 2020. The increase in product revenue is due to increased product sales in the second quarter of 2021 versus the prior year period which was impacted by COVID-19. Revenues from services increased approximately $1.7 million, or 10.5%, to $18.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $16.4 million in the same period in 2020. The increase in services revenue is principally due to an increase in revenue resulting from our Powerfleet for Vehicles solutions. COST OF REVENUES. Cost of revenues increased by approximately $5.8 million, or 49.3%, to $17.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $11.7 million for the same period in 2020. Gross profit was $16.0 million in three months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $14.0 million for the same period in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit decreased to 47.8% in 2021 from 54.5% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was principally due to changes in product mix. Cost of products increased by approximately $4.9 million, or 80.3%, to $10.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $6.0 million in the same period in 2020. Gross profit for products was $4.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to $3.4 million in the same period in 2020. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit decreased to 29.8% in 2021 from 35.9% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of product revenues was principally due to changes in product mix. Cost of services increased by approximately $0.9 million, or 16.5%, to $6.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $5.7 million in the same period in 2020. Gross profit for services was $11.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to $10.7 million in the same period in 2020. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit decreased to 63.3% in 2021 from 65.2% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of services revenues was principally due to an increase in implementation expenses. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES . Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased by approximately $1.2 million, or 10.3%, to approximately $13.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to $12.2 million in the same period in 2020 principally due to the reversal of temporary cost reduction initiatives implemented during the first quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses decreased to 40.0% in the three months ended June 30, 2021, from 47.2% in the same period in 2020. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES . Research and development (R&D) expenses increased by approximately $0.2 million or 7.6%, to approximately $2.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $2.6 million in the same period in 2020 principally due to the reversal of temporary cost reduction initiatives implemented during the first quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses decreased to 8.3% in the three months ended June 30, 2021 from 10.0% in the same period in 2020, primarily due to the decrease in revenue from 2021 to 2020. NET LOSS ATTIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS . Net loss was $2.6 million, or $(0.08) per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2021 as compared to net loss of $3.8 million, or $(0.13) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2020. The decrease in the net loss was due primarily to the reasons described above. 32 Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 REVENUES . Revenues increased by approximately $5.9 million, or 10.6% to $62.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 from $56.6 million in the same period in 2020. Revenues from products increased by approximately $4.3 million, or 19.0%, to $26.9 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $22.6 million in the same period in 2020. The increase in product revenue is due to increased product sales during the six months ended June 30, 2021 versus the prior year period, which was impacted by COVID-19. Revenues from services increased by approximately $1.7 million or 5.0% to $35.7 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $34.0 million in the same period in 2020. The increase in services revenue is principally due to an increase in revenue resulting from our Powerfleet for Vehicles solutions. COST OF REVENUES . Cost of revenues increased by approximately $4.3 million, or 15.8%, to $32.0 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $27.7 million for the same period in 2020. Gross profit was $30.5 million in six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $28.9 million for the same period in 2020. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit decreased to 48.8% in 2021 from 51.1% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was principally due to changes in product mix. Cost of products increased by approximately $3.7 million, or 24.1%, to $19.0 million in the six months ended June 30 2021, from $15.3 million in the same period in 2020. Gross profit for products was $7.9 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $7.3 million in the same period in 2020. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit decreased to 29.3% in 2021 from 32.2% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of product revenues was principally due to changes in product mix. Cost of services increased by approximately $0.7 million, or 5.5%, to $13.0 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 from $12.3 million in the same period in 2020. Gross profit for services was $22.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021 compared to $21.6 million in the same period in 2020. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit decreased to 63.5% in 2021 from 63.7% in 2020. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of services revenues was principally due to an increase in implementation expenses. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES . SG&A expenses decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 0.9%, to approximately $27.0 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $27.3 million in the same period in 2020 principally due to the reversal of temporary cost reduction initiatives implemented during the first quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses decreased to 43.2% in the six months ended June 30, 2021 from 48.2% in the same period in 2020. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES . R&D expenses decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 4.0%, to approximately $5.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to $5.8 million in the same period principally due to the reversal of temporary cost reduction initiatives implemented during the first quarter of 2020 due to COVID-19. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses decreased to 8.8% in the six months ended June 30, 2021, from 10.2% in the same period in 2020. NET LOSS ATTIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS. Net loss was $5.6 million or $(0.16) per basic and diluted share, for the six months ended June 30, 2021 as compared to net loss of $8.3 million, or $(0.28) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2020. The decrease in the net loss was due primarily to the reasons described above Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our capital requirements have been funded primarily from the net proceeds from the issuance of our securities, including any issuances of our common stock upon the exercise of options. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $39.9 million and working capital of $53.3 million. On October 3, 2019, in connection with the completion of the Transactions, we issued and sold 50,000 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Series A Preferred Stock), to ABRY Senior Equity V, L.P., ABRY Senior Equity Co-Investment Fund V, L.P. and ABRY Investment Partnership, L.P. (the Investors), affiliates of ABRY Partners II, LLC, for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million. The proceeds received from such sale were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. On June 9, 2021, we entered into a preferred stock redemption right agreement (the Redemption Right Agreement) with the Investors, pursuant to which we have the right to redeem 10,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a price of $1,450 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, to be paid in cash. Our exercise of the redemption right under the Redemption Right Agreement is subject to, among other things, stockholder approval of an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to modify certain terms of the Series A Preferred (the Series A Preferred Amendment), as described in detail in our definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on June 11, 2021, and the decision of our board of directors to effect the Series A Preferred Amendment and the redemption. Our stockholders approved the Series A Preferred Amendment at our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 20, 2021. The closing of the redemption is also conditioned upon, among other things, our having sufficient surplus (as defined and calculated in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) and funds lawfully available to pay the aggregate redemption price in cash and our, after giving effect to the redemption, having (i) net assets (as such term is defined and determined in accordance with Delaware law) greater than zero and greater than the amount which would be required as of the closing date of the redemption to pay the maximum amount which would be owed to stockholders with preferential rights in a liquidation of the Company and (ii) the requisite financial wherewithal to conduct our business, pay any and all liabilities as due and all then-incurred debts as they mature. The Redemption Right Agreement automatically terminates at 5:30 p.m. on October 1, 2021 if the redemption has not closed. As of August 9, 2021, we have not exercised our redemption right under Redemption Right Agreement. 33 In addition, PowerFleet Israel and Pointer are party to a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Bank Hapoalim B.M. (Hapoalim), pursuant to which Hapoalim agreed to provide PowerFleet Israel with two senior secured term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $30 million (comprised of two facilities in the aggregate principal amount of $20 million and $10 million) and a five-year revolving credit facility to Pointer in an aggregate principal amount of $10 million. The proceeds of the term loan facilities were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used by Pointer for general corporate purposes. The Company has been in discussions with Hapoalim regarding an amendment to the Credit Agreement with respect to a reduction in the interest rates from approximately 4.73% for the Term A Facility and 5.89% for the Term B Facility to 3.65% for the Term A Facility and 4.5% for the Term B Facility as well as the elimination of the requirement to deposit in a separate restricted deposit account the Israeli shekel (NIS) equivalent of $3,000. Although subject to the execution of a definitive amendment to the Credit Agreement, the Company and Hapoalim have an agreement in principle with respect to these two provisions. In the interim, Hapoalim has agreed to not require the $3,000 escrow deposit and has agreed to reduce the interest rates to 3.65% for the Term A Facility and 4.5% for the Term B Facility effective November 2020. We have on file a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that was declared effective by the SEC on November 27, 2019. Pursuant to the shelf registration statement, we may offer to the public from time to time, in one or more offerings, up to $60.0 million of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, and units, or any combination of the foregoing, at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of any such offering. The specific terms of any future offering will be determined at the time of the offering and described in a prospectus supplement that will be filed with the SEC in connection with such offering. On May 14, 2020, we entered into an equity distribution agreement for an at-the-market offering program (the ATM Offering) with Canaccord Genuity LLC (Canaccord) as sales agent, pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 809,846 shares of common stock for approximately $4.2 million in gross proceeds. We terminated the equity distribution agreement effective as of August 14, 2020. On February 1, 2021, we closed an underwritten public offering (the Underwritten Public Offering) of 4,427,500 shares of common stock (which includes the full exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option) for gross proceeds of approximately $28.8 million, before deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses. The offer and sale of common stock in the ATM Offering and the Underwritten Public Offering were made pursuant to our shelf registration statement. Because of the recent outbreak of COVID-19, there is significant uncertainty surrounding the potential impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We are proactively taking steps to increase available cash on hand including, but not limited to, targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses and capital expenditures and borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Capital Requirements As of June 30, 2021, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $40.2 million and working capital of $53.3 million. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operating activities, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facility. To date, we have not generated sufficient cash flow solely from operating activities to fund our operations. We believe our available working capital, anticipated level of future revenues and expected cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to cover capital requirements through at least August 10, 2022. Our capital requirements depend on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the length of the sales cycle, the rate of increase or decrease in our existing business base, the success, timing, and amount of investment required to bring new products to market, revenue growth or decline and potential acquisitions. Failure to generate positive cash flow from operations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $4.4 million for the same period in 2020. The net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 reflects a net loss of $3.2 million and includes non-cash charges of $2.5 million for stock-based compensation, $4.2 million for depreciation and amortization expense and $1.5 million for right of use asset amortization. Changes in working capital items included: an increase in accounts receivable of $6.4 million; an increase in accounts payable of $2.6 million; and a decrease in lease liabilities of $1.5 million. 34 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $0.8 million for the same period in 2020. The cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was for the purchase of fixed assets. The cash used in investing activities in the same period in 2020 was primarily for the purchase of fixed assets. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $22 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $2.8 million for the same period in 2020. The change from the same period in 2020 was primarily due to the net proceeds from our stock offering of $26.8 million offset by the repayment of long-term debt of $2.7 million and the payment of preferred stock dividends of $2.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2021, there have been no material charges in contractual obligations as disclosed under the caption Contractual Obligations and Commitments in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, except as noted below. On March 17, 2021, the Company entered into an office lease agreement for approximately 5,000 leasable square feet, in Frisco, Texas, to be used as administrative offices. The base rent for the leased premises is approximately $0.1 million per year. The Company also will be responsible for its pro rata share of any operating expenses, taxes and insurance expenses incurred in connection with the office building in which the leased premises are located. The initial term of the lease agreement is for a period of five years and five months and is scheduled to commence on June 1, 2021 and to expire on October 31, 2021. Inflation We operate in several emerging market economies that are particularly vulnerable to the impact of inflationary pressures that could materially and adversely impact our operations in the foreseeable future. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company is subject to recently issued accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. For a description of these new accounting standards, see Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference.