Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K. When used in this report, the words seek, estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, contemplate, plan, continue, intend, believe and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations and various assumptions. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our expectations and beliefs, but there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations or that our beliefs will prove to be correct. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed as forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited to: future global economic and business conditions, including the effect of conflicts in certain geographies and the potential imposition of tariffs; integration of our, MiX Telematics and Fleet Completes businesses and the ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of our transactions with MiX Telematics and Fleet Complete; the commercial, financial, reputational and regulatory risks to our business that may arise as a consequence of operating across multiple geographies; disruptions in our global supply chain or failures by subcontractors; the loss of any of our key customers or reduction in the purchase of our products by any such customers; reliance on third-party channel partner relationships; our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property; changes in technology or products, which may be more difficult or costly, or less effective, than anticipated; potential breaches of our information technology systems; our ability to obtain additional capital to fund our operations; and those risks and uncertainties set forth under the heading Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or which we currently deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date they are made and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, or otherwise. Note Regarding Trademarks We have, or have applied for, U.S. and/or foreign trademark protection for I.D. SYSTEMS and Design, the I.D. SYSTEMS Logo, VEHICLE ASSET COMMUNICATOR , POWERFLEET, POWERFLEET IQ, POWERFLEET YARD, didBOX, FREIGHTCAM, KEYTROLLER, REEFERMATE, POWERFLEET and DESIGN, CAMERA Design, UNITY, POWERFLEET UNITY, POWER AI, Mix Telematics, Mix Telematics Logo, Matrix Vehicle Tracking Logo, Datatrak, Tracking. Simply Sorted, Beame Character Device, Beame Logo 2012, Beame Logo 2010, Mix-Drive, FM-WEB, Matrix right by your side (2013 logo), Mix Vision, Mix Safedrive, FM Communicator, MIX ROVI, Beame Logo, Our Customers Are People, Not Vehicles, Tripmaster, Life Takes You Places, Matrix Brings you Home, MiX Intuition, Recovery. Simply Sorted, Geoloc Advanced Alert, MiX Now, Mix Recovery Protect, Mix Fleet Manager, Connected and Protected Fleet, FLEET COMPLETE, FLEET COMPLETE & Design, HELPING FLEETS THRIVE, CONNVEX, CONNVEX EDGE, CONNVEX INSIGHTS, CONNVEX LIVE, FIELDWORKER BY FLEET COMPLETE, WATCHDOG, COURIER COMPLETE, BIGROAD, BIGROAD Design, and BIGROAD A Fleet Complete Company. 4 Item 1. Business Overview We are a global provider of Artificial Intelligence-of-Things (AIoT) solutions providing valuable business intelligence for managing high-value enterprise and mid-market assets that improve operational efficiencies. We are headquartered in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, with offices located around the globe. Our Unity data highway and AIoT ecosystem is the centerpiece of our strategy. Unity has the capability to ingest data from multiple data sources, harmonizing and transforming the dataset, and delivering simply understood insights through a unified Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform and deep integrations with customer business systems. Unity provides mission-critical solutions from warehouse to trailer to vehicle, allowing customers to consolidate suppliers and gain end-to-end control of their operations in a single pane of glass. Unity enables customers to consume their data in multiple ways, from data-powered applications to unified operations integrations, which provide the ability to improve performance of the asset, the individual in charge of the asset, and the business process, continuously improving our customers business performance. Within the Unity ecosystem, our Powerfleet for Warehouseand Factory AIoT solutions are designed to provide on-premise or in-facility asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for warehouse and factory trucks such as forklifts, man-lifts, tuggers and ground support equipment at airports. These solutions utilize a variety of communications capabilities such as Bluetooth, WiFi, and proprietary radio frequencytechnology. Additionally, within the Unity ecosystem, our Powerfleet for On-Road AIoT solutions are designed to provide bumper-to-bumper AIoT asset management, monitoring, and visibility for over-the-road based assets such as heavy trucks, dry-van trailers, refrigerated trailers and shipping containers and their associated cargo. These AIoT solutions provide mobile-asset tracking and condition-monitoring solutions to meet the transportation markets desire for greater visibility, safety, security, and productivity throughout global supply chains. Our On-Road AIoT solutions extend to all mobile assets, whether it is a rental car, a private fleet, or automotive original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners. We achieve this by providing critical information that can be used to increase revenues, reduce costs, enhance safety and sustainability, deliver compliance, and improve customer service. Our patented technologies are proven solutions for organizations that must monitor and analyze their assets to improve safety, increase efficiency, reduce costs, and drive profitability. Our offerings are sold under the global brands Powerfleet, Pointer, Cellocator, MiX by Powerfleet and Fleet Complete. We have an established history of Internet-of-Things (IoT) device development, artificial intelligence (AI) and data science expertise, and innovation creating devices that can withstand harsh and rugged environments. With 40 patents and patent applications and over 25 years experience, we believe we are well-positioned to evolve our offerings for even greater value to customers through our cloud-based applications for unified operations. We deliver advanced data solutions that connect mobile assets to increase visibility, operational efficiency and profitability. Across our spectrum of vertical markets, we differentiate ourselves by developing mobility platforms that collect data from unique sensors. Because we are data source and OEM agnostic, we help organizations view and manage their mixed assets homogeneously. All of our solutions are paired with SaaS and analytics platforms to provide an even deeper level of insights and understanding of how assets are utilized and how drivers and operators operate those assets. These insights include a full set of key performance indicators to drive operational and strategic decisions. Our customers typically get a return on their investment in less than 12 months from deployment. Our enterprise software applications have AI and machine learning capabilities and are built to integrate with our customers management systems to provide a single, integrated view of asset and operator activity across multiple locations while providing real-time enterprise-wide benchmarks and peer-industry comparisons. We look for analytics, as well as the data contained therein, to differentiate us from our competitors, adding significant value to customers business operations, and helping to contribute to their bottom line. Our solutions also feature open application programming interfaces (APIs) for additional integrations and development to boost other enterprise management systems and third-party applications. 5 We market and sell our Unity ecosystem and our connected AIoT data solutions to a wide range of customers in the commercial and government sectors. Our customers operate in diverse markets, such as manufacturing, automotive manufacturing, wholesale and retail, food and grocery distribution, pharmaceutical and medical distribution, construction, mining, utilities, aerospace, vehicle rental, as well as logistics, shipping, transportation, energy and field services. Traditionally, these businesses have relied on multiple vendors, as well as manual, often paper-based, processes or on-premise legacy software to operate their high-value assets, manage workforce resources, and distributed sites; and face environmental, safety, and other regulatory requirements. In todays landscape, it is crucial for these businesses to invest in solutions that enable easy analysis and sharing of real-time information, increasingly consolidating their suppliers. Recent Strategic Transactions On April 2, 2024, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the Implementation Agreement, dated as of October 10, 2023 (the Implementation Agreement), that we entered into with Main Street 2000 Proprietary Limited, a private company incorporated in the Republic of South Africa and our wholly owned subsidiary (Powerfleet Sub), and MiX Telematics Limited, formerly a public company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of South Africa (MiX Telematics), pursuant to which, Powerfleet Sub acquired all the issued ordinary shares of MiX Telematics (including those represented by MiX Telematics American Depositary Shares) through the implementation of a scheme of arrangement (the Scheme) in accordance with Sections 114 and 115 of the South African Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, as amended (the Companies Act), in exchange for shares of our common stock. As a result, MiX Telematics became our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary (the MiX Combination). Since the closing of the MiX Combination, we have made significant progress in integrating the MiX Telematics business into our operations, with alignment of core functions and early realization of operational synergies. On October 1, 2024, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2024 (the Purchase Agreement), by and among Golden Eagle Topco, LP (Golden Eagle LP), the persons that are party to the Purchase Agreement under the heading Other Sellers (the Other Sellers and, together with Golden Eagle LP, the Sellers), the Company and Powerfleet Canada Holdings Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Canadian SPV and, together with the Company, the Purchasers), pursuant to which the Purchasers acquired all of the direct and indirect common shares in the capital of Golden Eagle Canada Holdings, Inc. (Canada Holdco) and Complete Innovations Holdings Inc. (CIH), and all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Golden Eagle Holdings, Inc. (together with Canada Holdco and CIH, Fleet Complete). As a result, Fleet Complete became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the FC Acquisition). Our Solutions Unity Solution Portfolio Unity enables rapid and deep integration with AIoT devices and third-party business systems to a highly scalable data highway that powers AI-driven insights to help customers save lives, time, and money. Unitys extensive integration library of data sensory device types coupled with our modular, business performance improvement solutions allow customers to receive rapid speed to value and deliver dramatic positive change to their business. Unity also offers data extensibility by exposing the platform using extensible microservices and open APIs to make integrating to external systems and leveraging customers own data quick and easy. Unity unites customer data so they can focus on what matters most. With our SaaS-based Unity modules, recognized by ABI Research as the number one global platform solution portfolio in its market in 2025, which includes best-in-class vehicle, video and in-warehouse IoT, customers can gain visibility and AI-powered insights into their people, assets and business processes to better manage utilization and maintenance, safety, fuel and energy management, compliance and high-risk incidents all in a single pane of glass. Our solutions are capable of ingesting, processing, and enriching livestream data from any of our customers AIoT devices and business systems to provide mission-critical data that powers our customers operations. Key Applications of Our AIoT Solutions We provide real-time intelligence for organizations with high-value assets allowing them to make informed decisions and ultimately improve their operations, safety, and bottom line. Our applications enable organizations to capture AIoT data from various types of assets with devices and sensors creating a holistic view for analysis and action. 6 The core applications that our AIoT solutions address include: End-to-End Visibility: Organizations with expensive assets such as vehicles, machinery, or equipment need to keep track of where the assets are located, monitor for misuse, and understand how and when assets are being used. By having complete visibility of their assets, customers can improve security, utilization and customer service. In addition, our visibility solutions help with personnel workflows and resource management, freight visibility through load status, equipment availability status, dwell and idle time, geofencing, two-way temperature control and management, multi-zone temperature monitoring, arrival and departure times, and supply chain allocation. Regulatory Compliance: Businesses must comply with government regulations and provide proof of compliance, which is commonly an onerous process to enforce and maintain. Our solutions provide critical data points and reports to help customers stay within compliance, avoid fines for non-compliance, and automate the reporting process. We deliver real-time position reports, hours-of-service, temperature monitoring and control, electronic safety checklists, workflow management, controlling vehicle access to only authorized operators, inspection reports, and history logs of use. Improve Safety: Our applications are designed to provide asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for safer environmentsand include AI-based video safety and predictive analytics. Our solutions allow our customers to monitor their fleet of vehicles on various parameters, including but not limited to, vehicle location, speed, engine fault codes, driver behavior, eco-driving, and ancillary sensors and can receive reports and alerts, either automatically or upon request wirelessly via the internet, email, mobile phone or an SMS. In addition, our dash camera provides critical video capture that can be used to help exonerate drivers when in accidents or help bolster training and coaching programs of employees. We also offer preventative solutions such as safety warning products to alert vehicle operators of objects or pedestrians in their pathway to prevent accidents, injuries, and damage. Our analytics platform features dashboards with KPIs and can help managers identify patterns, trends and outliers that can be used as flags for interventions. Drive Operational Efficiency & Productivity: To increase utilization of mobile assets, our solutions enable the identification of a change in status, real-time location, geo-fencing alerts when an asset is approaching or leaving its destination, cargo status, and on-board intelligence utilizing a motion sensor and proprietary logic that identifies the beginning of a drive and the end of a drive. Having this information enables customers to increase capacity, speed of service, right-size their fleets, and improve communication internally and with customers. In addition, customers can increase revenue per mile, reduce claims and claims processing times, and reduce the number of assets needed. This is achieved through proving such things as two-way integrated workflows for drivers, control assignments and work change, Electronic Driver Logging and automated record keeping for regulatory compliance, monitoring of asset pools and geofence violations, and various reporting insights that flag under-utilized assets, the closest assets, and alerts on dwell time and exceeding the allotted time for loading and unloading. We help customers with their digital transformation journeys by automating processes and increasing productivity and cost efficiency of their employees. Our applications enable customers to determine where operators are assigned and can temporarily reassign them based on peak needs, evaluate any disparity in the amount employees are paid compared to the time they actually spend operating a vehicle. Our applications help answer the question of why it takes some employees longer than others to do specific tasks, where to focus labor resources, and how to forecast vehicles and operators needed for future workflow. In addition, for our rental car vertical, our applications automatically upload vehicle identification number, mileage and fuel data as a vehicle enters and exits the rental lot, which can significantly expedite the rental and return processes for travelers, and provide the rental company with more timely inventory status, more accurate billing data that can generate higher fuel-related revenue, and an opportunity to utilize customer service personnel for more productive activities, such as inspecting vehicles for damage and helping customers with luggage. Our solution for car sharing permits a rental car company to remotely control, track and monitor their rental vehicles wherever they are parked. Whether for traditional pod-based rental or for the emerging rent-anywhere model, the system, through APIs integrated into any rental companys fleet management system, (i) manages member reservations by smart phone or Internet, and (ii) charges members for vehicle use by the hour. For our customers with a variety of make-model-years in their fleet, we have developed an unmatched library of certified vehicle code interfaces through our second-generation On-Board Diagnostics, industry standard. Our patented fleet management system helps fleet owners improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. 7 Increase Security: Our solutions allow our customers to reduce theft and improve inventory management. Customers can lockdown their assets with automated e-mail or text message alerts, emergency tracking of assets (higher frequency of reports) if theft is expected, geo-fencing alerts when an asset enters a prohibited geography or location, and near real-time sensors that alert based on changes in temperature and shock, among other things. We also provide security services. Most of the security products used to provide our security services are mainly sold to (i) local car dealers and importers that in turn sell the products equipped in the vehicle to the end users who purchase the security services directly from us, or (ii) leasing companies which purchase our security services in order to secure their own vehicles. Reduce Costs We enable our customers to improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Our solutions provide engine performance, machine diagnostics, fuel consumption, and battery life to improve preventative maintenance scheduling, increase uptime, and gain a longer service life of equipment. Through our software applications, customers can optimize capacity, analyze resource allocation, and improve utilization of assets to reduce capital expenses such as purchasing new or leasing additional equipment. Our applications provide root cause analysis for any cargo claims and help with exoneration of drivers in accidents via dash camera visibility. Analytics and Machine Learning AIoT significantly enhances Unitys capabilities by integrating AI with IoT. This integration helps to organize large data pools, automate data harmonization, create intelligent infrastructure, and generate actionable insights, ultimately enhancing the speed and return on investment of data usage. At a crucial inflection point in the industry, AIoT emerges as a transformative force, allowing Unity to offer mission-critical solutions that extend from warehouse to trailer to vehicle. This enables customers to consolidate all of their data in one place, streamline supplier interactions, and achieve end-to-end visibility. Unitys approach creates a single source of truth across all mobile asset types, a distinctive and innovative strategy in the industry. For example, our image machine learning system allows us to process images from our freight camera and other sources and identify key aspects of operations and geospatial information such as location, work being accomplished, type of cargo, how cargo is loaded and if there are any visible issues such as damage. Our analytics platforms provide our customers with a holistic view of their asset activity across their enterprise. Our distinct advantage in AI is our trove of operational data, which we use to build and improve our AI models. Unity seamlessly ingests data from 600+ sources, including IoT devices, sensors, OEM systems and third party platforms. By using this data set to train, test and fine-tune our AI models, we are able to provide AI driven data harmonization that delivers a single source of truth for operational intelligence. We maintain a close, collaborative relationship between our AI, firmware, and software development teams to ensure our advanced AI data highway runs efficiently. Key Performance Indicators & Benchmarks Our cloud-based software applications provide a single, integrated view of asset activity across multiple locations, generating enterprise-wide benchmarks, peer-industry comparisons, and deeper insights into asset operations. In addition, our customers can set real-time alerts for exception-based reporting or critical activity that needs immediate attention. This enables management teams to make more informed, effective decisions, raise asset performance standards, increase productivity, reduce costs, and enhance safety. Specifically, our analytics platforms allow users to quantify best-practice enterprise benchmarks for asset utilization and safety, reveal variations and inefficiencies in asset activity across both sites and geographic regions, or identify opportunities to eliminate or reallocate assets, to reduce capital and operating costs. We provide an extensive set of decision-making tools and a variety of standard and customized reports to help businesses improve overall operations. We look for analytics and machine learning to make a growing contribution to drive platform and SaaS revenue, further differentiate our offerings and add value to our solutions. We also use our analytics platform for our own internal platform quality control. Services Hosting Services: We provide the use of our systems as a remotely hosted service, with the system server and application software residing in our colocation center or on a cloud platform providers infrastructure (e.g., Azure, AWS). This approach helps us reduce support costs and improve quality control. It separates the system from the restrictions of the customers local 8 information technology (IT) networks, which helps reduce their system support efforts and makes it easier for them to receive the benefits of system enhancements and upgrades. Our hosting services are typically offered with extended maintenance and support services over a multi-year term of service and typically include renewals after the end of the initial term. Software as a Service: We provide system monitoring, help desk technical support, escalation procedure development, routine diagnostic data analysis and software updates services as part of the ongoing contract term. These services ensure deployed systems remain in optimal performance condition throughout the contract term and provide access to newly developed features and functions on an annual basis. Maintenance Services: We provide a warranty on the hardware components of our system. During the warranty period, we either replace or repair defective hardware. We also make extended maintenance contracts available to customers and offer ongoing maintenance and support on a time and materials basis. Customer Support and Consulting Services for Ease of Use, Adoption, and Added Value: We have developed a framework for the various phases of system training and support that offer our customers both structure and flexibility. Major training phases include hardware installation and troubleshooting, software installation and troubleshooting, train-the-trainer training on asset hardware operation, preliminary software user training, system administrator training, information technology issue training, ad hoc training during system launch and advanced software user training. Increasingly, training services are provided through scalable online interactive training tools. Support and consulting services are priced based on the extent of training that the customer requests. To help our customers derive the most benefit from our system, we supply a broad range of documentation and support including videos, interactive online tools, hardware user guides, software manuals, vehicle installation overviews, troubleshooting guides, and issue escalation procedures. We provide our consulting services both as a standalone service to study the potential benefits of implementing an AIoT business intelligence solution and as part of the system implementation itself. In some instances, customers prepay us for extended maintenance, support and consulting services. In those instances, the payment amount is recorded as deferred revenue and revenue is recognized over the service period. Growth Strategy Our objective is to become a leading global provider of AIoT SaaS solutions for high-value enterprise and mid-market assets to drive optimized operations and create safer environments. In 2023, we consolidated and augmented many of our existing capabilities on a single customer software platform branded as Unity. We have designed our Unity platform to enable rapid and deep integration with AIoT devices and third-party business systems to a highly scalable data pipeline that powers AI-driven insights to help companies save lives, time, and money. Unity is an increasingly important initiative to meet our objective of becoming a leading global provider of AIoT SaaS solutions for high-value enterprise and mid-market assets to drive optimized operations and create safer environments. In 2024, we completed the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition, which has accelerated our strategic objectives. In 2025, we received the accolade of most innovative company in our space globally. This was independently awarded by industry experts ABI Research after their in-depth assessment of our Unity portfolio. Building on our recent successes, we intend to prove value, retain and grow business with existing customers and pursue opportunities with new customers by: focusing our business solutions by vertical markets and go-to-market strategies to each market; positioning ourselves as an innovative thought leader; maintaining a world class sales and marketing team; identifying, seizing, and managing revenue opportunities; expanding our customer base, achieving wider market penetration and educating customers with mixed assets in their organization about our other applications; implementing improved marketing, sales and support strategies; shortening our initial sales cycles by helping our customers through: identifying and quantifying benefits expected from our solutions; 9 accelerating transitions from implementation to roll-out; and building service revenue through long-term SaaS contracts; differentiating our product offering through analytics, machine learning, unique sensors, and value-added services; producing incremental revenue at a high profit margin; and expanding our partnerships, distribution channels, and integrations. We also plan to expand into new applications and markets by: pursuing opportunities to integrate our system with computer hardware and software vendors, including: OEMs; transportation management systems; warehouse management systems; labor and time card systems; enterprise resource planning; and yard management systems. establishing relationships with global distributors; and evaluating and pursuing strategically sound acquisitions of companies. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing objectives are to achieve broad market awareness and penetration, with an emphasis both on expanding business opportunities with existing customers and on securing new customers. We market our systems directly to commercial and government organizations and through indirect sales channels, such as OEMs, vehicle importers, distributors (including major telecommunication companies), and warehouse equipment dealers. In addition, we are actively pursuing strategic relationships with key companies in our target markets - including complementary hardware and software vendors and service providers - to further penetrate these markets by embedding our products in the assets our systems monitor and integrating our solutions with other systems. We sell our systems to corporate-level executives, division heads and site-level management within the enterprise. Typically, our initial system deployment serves as a basis for potential expansion across the customers organization. We work closely with customers to demonstrate a return on investment, which is usually less than 12 months, and help maximize the utilization and benefits of our system and demonstrate the value of enterprise-wide deployments. Post-implementation, we consult with our customers to further extend and customize the benefits to the enterprise by delivering enhanced analytics capabilities. Customers We market and sell our wireless solutions to a wide range of customers in the commercial and government sectors. We serve over 50,000 enterprise and mid-market customers across a wide range of industries, including construction and heavy equipment, distribution, field services, leasing and car rental, government and public safety, manufacturing and automotive, oil, gas, and chemical, transportation and logistics, utilities and telecommunications, and cold chain logistics. While we generally enter into master agreements with our customers in the normal course of business, certain customer relationships are governed by individual asset contracts. These agreements define the terms of any sales of products and/or services by us to the applicable customer, including, but not limited to, terms regarding payment, support services, termination and assignment rights. These agreements generally obligate us only when products or services are actually sold to the customer thereunder. 10 We strive to establish long-term relationships with our customers in order to maximize opportunities for new application development and increased sales. Some of our global customers that benefit from our combined solutions to power their specific AIoT and machine-to-machine mobility needs include Avis, Walmart, Toyota, and XPO Logistics. No individual customer generates revenue equal to or greater than 10% of our consolidated total revenue. Competition The market for our solutions is rapidly evolving, highly competitive and fragmented. Our target markets are also subject to quickly changing product technologies, shifting customer needs, regulatory requirements and frequent introductions of new products and services. In each of our global markets, we encounter different competitors due to the dynamics of each market. A significant number of companies have developed or are developing and marketing software and hardware for wireless products that currently compete or will compete directly with our solutions. We compete with organizations varying in size, including many small, start-up companies as well as large, well-capitalized organizations. While some of our competitors focus exclusively on providing wireless asset management solutions, many are involved in AIoT solutions as an extension of a broader business. Many of our larger competitors are able to dedicate extensive financial resources to the research and development and deployment of wireless solutions. As government and commercial entities expand the use of wireless technologies, we expect that competition will continue to increase within our target markets. Research and Development Our research and development team has expertise in areas such as hardware, software and firmware development and testing, database design and data analytics, wireless communications, AI methods, mechanical and electrical engineering, and both product and project management. In addition, we utilize external contractors to supplement our team in the areas of software and firmware development, digital design, test development and product-level testing. Generally, our research and development efforts are focused on expanding the capabilities of our products; differentiating our offerings through our Unity platform build, simplifying the implementation, support and utilization of our solutions, reducing the cost of our solutions, increasing the reliability of our solutions, expanding the functionality of our solutions to meet customer and market requirements, applying new advances in technology to enhance existing solutions, and building further competitive advantages through our intellectual property portfolio. Intellectual Property Patents We attempt to protect our technology and products through a variety of intellectual property protections, including the pursuit of patent protection in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. Because of the differences in patent laws and laws concerning proprietary rights, the extent of protection provided by U.S. patents or proprietary rights owned by us may differ from that of their foreign counterparts. Where strategically appropriate, we will attempt to pursue suspected violators of our patents and, whenever possible, monetize our intellectual property. We built a portfolio of patents and patent applications relating to various aspects of our technology and products, including our wireless asset management systems, connected car products, and vehicle management systems. As of May 23, 2025, our patent portfolio includes 34 U.S. patents, 2 pending U.S. patent applications, 1 pending foreign patent applications, and 3 foreign patents. With the timely payment of all maintenance fees, the U.S. patents have expiration dates falling between 2026 and 2040. No single patent or patent family is considered material to our business. Trademarks We have, or have applied for, U.S. and/or foreign trademark protection for I.D. SYSTEMS and Design, the I.D. SYSTEMS Logo, VEHICLE ASSET COMMUNICATOR, POWERFLEET, POWERFLEET IQ, POWERFLEET YARD, didBOX, FREIGHTCAM, KEYTROLLER, REEFERMATE, POWERFLEET and DESIGN, CAMERA Design, UNITY, POWERFLEET UNITY, POWER AI. Following the MiX Combination, we have additional trademarks for Mix Telematics, Mix Telematics Logo, Matrix Vehicle Tracking Logo, Datatrak, Tracking. Simply Sorted, Beame Character Device, Beame Logo 2012, Beame Logo 2010, Mix-Drive, FM-WEB, Matrix right by your side (2013 logo), Mix Vision, 11 Mix Safedrive, FM Communicator, MIX ROVI, Beame Logo, Our Customers Are People, Not Vehicles, Tripmaster, Life Takes You Places, Matrix Brings you Home, MiX Intuition, Recovery. Simply Sorted, Geoloc Advanced Alert, MiX Now, Mix Recovery Protect, Mix Fleet Manager, Connected and Protected Fleet. In addition, following the FC Acquisition, we have expanded our trademark portfolio to include FLEET COMPLETE, FLEET COMPLETE & Design, HELPING FLEETS THRIVE, CONNVEX, CONNVEX EDGE, CONNVEX INSIGHTS, CONNVEX LIVE, FIELDWORKER BY FLEET COMPLETE, WATCHDOG, COURIER COMPLETE, BIGROAD, BIGROAD Design, and BIGROAD A Fleet Complete Company. We attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development and sales efforts. However, it is difficult to proceed with certainty in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential at the time of the application filing, with regard to similar technologies. If we were to discover that our products violate third-party proprietary rights, we may not be able to: obtain licenses to continue offering such products without substantial reengineering; re-engineer our products successfully to avoid infringement; obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; litigate an alleged infringement successfully; or settle without substantial expense and damage awards. Any claims against us relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources or in injunctions preventing us from distributing certain products. Such claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our software products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and uses that may go undetected, and policing such unauthorized use is difficult. In general, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual safeguards may not be effective to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or to prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, or competitive with, those developed by us. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing We outsource our hardware manufacturing operations to contract manufacturers. This strategy enables us to focus on our core competencies - designing hardware and software systems and delivering solutions to customers and avoid investing in capital intensive electronics manufacturing infrastructure. Outsourcing also provides us with the ability to ramp up deliveries to meet increases in demand without increasing fixed expenses. Our manufacturers are responsible for obtaining the necessary components and supplies to manufacture our products. While components and supplies are generally available from a variety of sources, manufacturers generally depend on a limited number of suppliers. In the past, unexpected demand for communication products has caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts and allocation of such parts by suppliers that had an adverse impact on the ability of manufacturers to deliver products as well as on the cost of producing such products. Due to the general availability of manufacturers for our products, we do not believe that the loss of any of our manufacturers would have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, although there could be a short-term adverse effect on our business. We generally attempt to maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demand for products, as well as to meet anticipated sales levels. If our product mix changes in unanticipated ways, or if sales for particular products do not materialize as anticipated, we may have excess inventory or inventory that becomes obsolete. In such cases, our operating results could be negatively affected. 12 Government Regulations The use of radio emissions is subject to regulation in the United States by various federal agencies, including the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Various state agencies also have promulgated regulations which concern the use of lasers and radio/electromagnetic emissions standards. Regulatory changes in the United States and other countries in which we may operate in the future could require modifications to some of our products in order for us to continue manufacturing and marketing our products in those areas. Our products intentionally transmit radio signals, including narrow band and spread spectrum signals, as part of their normal operation. We have obtained certification from the FCC for our products that require certification. Users of these products in the United States do not require any license from the FCC to use or operate our products. To market and sell our integrated wireless solutions in the European Union, we also utilize unlicensed radio spectra and have obtained the required European Norm certifications. In addition, some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and local laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state and local laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. The adoption of unfavorable regulations, or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical or otherwise adversely affect our ability to produce or market our products. Since 1996, our subsidiary Pointer Telocation Ltd. (Pointer) has held an operational license, which is renewed on a regular basis, from the Ministry of Communications in Israel to operate our wireless messaging system over 2 MHz in the 966 to 968 MHz radio spectrum band. It also obtains licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications in order to manufacture, import, market and sell its products in Israel. Our subsidiary Pointer Argentina S.A. (Pointer Argentina) obtains domestic licenses for the deployment of our security services operation in Argentina and local operators are required to obtain a specific license for their operations. We are currently registered by the Federal Department of Security in Mexico to provide our services. Certain of our South African subsidiaries, including Pointer SA Pty Ltd (Pointer South Africa) and MiX Telematics Africa Pty Ltd(MiX Telematics Africa), are currently registered as security service providers under the Private Security Industry Regulation Act, 2001 in South Africa. Our products are also listed with the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa. While the use of our cellular monitoring units does not require regulatory approvals, in Israel, the use of our radio frequency products is subject to regulatory approvals from government agencies. In general, applications for regulatory approvals to date have not been problematic. However, we cannot guarantee that approvals already obtained are or will remain sufficient in the view of regulatory authorities indefinitely. As a result of the MiX Combination and FC Acquisition, we have expanded our operations in jurisdictions such as South Africa, Canada, and certain European and Latin American countries. In these regions, we are subject to additional regulatory requirements, including those relating to the use of radio frequency equipment, environmental compliance, and industry-specific licensing. Employees As of June 4, 2025, we had 2,518 total employees globally, 100% of whom are full-time employees. We believe that our relationships with our employees are good. Macroeconomic Developments Higher interest rates, persistent inflationary pressures, fluctuations in currency values, continued supply chain disruptions, ongoing geopolitical conflicts, such as the conflict in the Middle East, have resulted in significant global economic uncertainty. 13 In addition, evolving monetary, fiscal, and trade policies, including the recent imposition of tariffs, have further disrupted macroeconomic stability and created additional uncertainty for global commerce, which have adversely impacted our customers, suppliers, and overall operating environment. Given the dynamic and uncertain nature of the current macroeconomic environment, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of such developments on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows into the foreseeable future. The ultimate extent of the effects of these developments remain highly uncertain, and such effects could exist for an extended period of time. Other Information I.D. Systems, Inc. (I.D. Systems) was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1993. Powerfleet, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in February 2019 for the purpose of effectuating the transactions pursuant to which we acquired Pointer (the Pointer Merger). Upon the closing of the Pointer Merger, Powerfleet became the parent entity of I.D. Systems and Pointer. Our website is located at www.powerfleet.com. We make available on our website and also provide our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such information to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Reports and other information we file with the SEC may also be viewed at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on this website, free of charge, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Companys business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The summary below is not exhaustive, and investors should read this Risk Factors section in full. These and other risks are described in more detail in this Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in the section titled Risk Factors immediately following this summary. These risks include, among others, the following: We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition, and the continued integration of the businesses may involve challenges that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred significant losses and have a substantial accumulated deficit. If we cannot achieve profitability, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We are an international company and may be susceptible to several political, economic, trade and geographic risks that could harm our business. Conditions and changes in the global economic environment may adversely affect our business and financial results. Disruptions in our global supply chain or failures by subcontractors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological change, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. Inaccurate output from AI could result in brand and reputation damage. We are subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation, vendor, and customer relationships, and our customers access to our services. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies. Failure to correctly and efficiently implement ERP and customer relationship management (CRM) systems could have a material and adverse effect on our business. The international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and economic instability in certain emerging markets. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our operations that could have negative consequences on our business. We rely significantly on third-party channel partners, including telecommunication companies and regional distributors, for market access and sales execution, and any disruption to, or our failure to develop and manage, our channel partners would harm our business. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition, we have incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance the redemption of our then-outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock and the acquisition of Fleet Complete. Our Israeli subsidiaries have incurred significant indebtedness. 15 The terms of the A&R Credit Agreement restrict Powerfleet Israels and Pointers current and future operations, particularly their ability to respond to changes or take certain actions. Goodwill impairment or intangible impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate the identified material weaknesses and maintain effective internal control, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and investor and customer confidence. Our manufacturers rely on a limited number of suppliers for several significant components and raw materials used in our products. If we or our manufacturers are unable to obtain these components or raw materials on a timely or cost-effective basis, we will be unable to meet our customers orders, which could reduce our revenues, subject us to claims for damages and adversely affect our relationships with our customers. The use of our products is subject to international regulations. The adoption of industry standards that do not incorporate the technology we use may decrease or eliminate the demand for our services or products and could harm our results of operations. Under the current laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to enforce non-compete covenants and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected by a downturn in the financial and credit markets. Future sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The concentration of common stock ownership among our executive officers and directors could limit the ability of other stockholders of the Company to influence the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted for stockholder approval. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between us and our stockholders, which could limit stockholders ability to obtain a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees, and the enforceability of the exclusive forum provision may be subject to uncertainty. Provisions of Delaware law or the Charter could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and could make it more difficult for stockholders to change our management. Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition, and the continued integration of the businesses may involve challenges that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have made meaningful progress integrating MiX Telematics and Fleet Complete into our operations, the ultimate success of the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition remains subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including our ability to fully integrate their respective operations, technologies and personnel with our existing business. We believe these transactions will provide strategic benefits and operational synergies, including cost savings, increased scale and enhanced customer offerings, but such benefits may not be realized within the anticipated timeframe, or at all. 16 Integrating three historically independent businesses continues to present operational, cultural and logistical challenges and may involve unexpected costs or delays. These challenges include, among other things: combining operational, financial and administrative functions; integrating enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other IT systems; harmonizing policies, procedures and internal controls; aligning product and service offerings; consolidating facilities and infrastructure; managing geographically dispersed operations; retaining and integrating key employees; aligning human resources practices; addressing cultural differences; coordinating sales and marketing strategies; and preserving relationships with customers, vendors and other business partners. While progress has been made, any failure to effectively address these matters may adversely affect our ability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition. There can be no assurance that the combined business will perform as expected or that the anticipated synergies, including those related to optimizing operating models, eliminating redundancies, reallocating investments or enhancing free cash flow generation, will be fully achieved. The aggregate consideration paid in connection with the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition may ultimately exceed the value realized from these transactions, and our assumptions regarding future financial performance, unlevered free cash flow or earnings accretion may prove inaccurate. If the MiX Combination or the FC Acquisition is not accretive to our earnings per share, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Additionally, the transactions have resulted in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the assumption of existing and contingent liabilities of MiX Telematics and Fleet Complete, including potential tax, employee-related and other obligations, which may further limit our operational flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. Moreover, the continued integration efforts may divert managements time and attention from the day-to-day operation of our business, which could disrupt ongoing operations and impede the achievement of our strategic objectives. If we are unable to fully integrate MiX Telematics and Fleet Complete, or if the combined company does not perform as anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred significant losses and have a substantial accumulated deficit. If we cannot achieve profitability, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2025, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $109.7 million and $48.8 million, respectively, and working capital of $126.2 million and $18.1 million, respectively. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from the sales of products and services, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facilities. To date, we have not generated sufficient cash flow solely from operating activities to fund our operations. We incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders of approximately $(16.9) million, $(17.3) million, $(19.6) million, and $(51.0) million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, the three months ended March 31, 2024 and the year ended March 31, 2025, respectively, and have incurred additional net losses since inception. At March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $154.8 million and $205.8 million, respectively. Our ability to increase our revenues from the sale of our solutions will depend on our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy and the continued expansion of our markets. If our revenues do not grow or if our operating expenses continue to increase, we may not be able to become profitable, and the market price of our common stock could decline. We are an international company and may be susceptible to several political, economic, trade and geographic risks that could harm our business. We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. Our international sales are likely to account for a significant percentage of our products and services revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic event (for example, restrictions on international trade, imposition of tariffs, global supply chain disruptions, inflation and other cost increases, and the conflict in the Middle East, could result in a significant decline in our revenue. In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations will increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, international expansion efforts, ability to attract and retain employees, business, and operating results. Although we plan to implement policies and procedures 17 designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; fluctuations in international currency exchange rates including its impact on unhedgeable currencies and our forecast variations for hedgeable currencies; imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; sanctions and export regulations; management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; the burden of complying with a variety of laws and regulations in various countries; application of the income tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, including relatively low-rate and relatively high-rate jurisdictions, to our sales and other transactions, which results in additional complexity and uncertainty; the conduct of unethical business practices in certain developing countries; general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; war and acts of terrorism; kidnapping and high crime rate; natural disasters or pandemics (for example, the COVID-19 pandemic); availability of U.S. dollars especially in countries with economies highly dependent on resource exports, particularly oil; and changes in export regulations. While these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Conditions and changes in the global economic environment may adversely affect our business and financial results. The global economy continues to be adversely affected by stock market volatility, tightening of credit markets, concerns of inflation, restrictions on international trade, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These events and the related uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our customers and, among other things, postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and jeopardize or delay their ability or willingness to make payment obligations, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions, in particular as a result of the continued supply chain disruptions, inflation and other cost increases, and the conflict in the Middle East, could also adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, restrictions on international trade, such as tariffs and other controls on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, can materially adversely affect our business and supply chain. The impact can be particularly significant if these restrictive measures apply to countries and regions where we derive a significant portion of our revenues and/or have significant supply chain operations. Restrictive measures can increase the cost of our products and can require us to take various actions, including changing suppliers, restructuring business relationships and operations, ceasing to offer and distribute affected products, services and third-party applications to our customers, and increasing the prices of our products and services. Changing our business and supply chain in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our business and results of operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice, which can create uncertainty, and we may not be able to effectively mitigate any or all adverse impacts from such measures. Beginning in the second quarter of 2025, new U.S. tariffs were announced, including additional tariffs on imports from China, Taiwan, Vietnam and the EU, among others. In response, several countries have imposed, or threatened to impose, reciprocal tariffs on imports from the U.S. and other retaliatory measures. Various modifications, suspensions and delays to the U.S. tariffs have been announced and further changes are expected to be made in the future, which may include additional sector-based tariffs or other measures. The ultimate impact remains uncertain and will depend on several factors, including whether additional or 18 incremental U.S. tariffs or other measures are announced or imposed, to what extent other countries implement tariffs or other retaliatory measures in response, and the overall magnitude and duration of these measures. If disputes and conflicts further escalate, actions by governments in response could be significantly more severe and restrictive. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. During periods of economic downturn, our customers may decrease their demand for AIoT solutions, as well as the maintenance, support and consulting services we provide. This slowdown may have an adverse effect on the wireless solutions industry in general and on demand for our products and services, but the magnitude of that impact is uncertain. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on the demand for our products and services. Prolonged weakness in the economy may cause business enterprises to delay or cancel wireless solutions projects, reduce their overall wireless solutions budgets and/or reduce or cancel orders for our services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, and payment and collection issues, and may also result in price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and operating margins. Additionally, if our customers cancel or delay their wireless solutions initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If the current uncertainty in the general economy does not change or continue to improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Disruptions in our global supply chain or failures by subcontractors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely, cost-effective and high-quality manner is dependent on a complex, global supply chain and on subcontractors for key manufacturing and fulfillment operations. We source a significant number of componentsincluding semiconductors and telecommunications hardwarefrom a globally distributed network of suppliers and rely on third-party subcontractors for product assembly, testing and logistics. Any disruption or failure at any point in this network may materially impair our ability to meet customer demand. The availability of certain critical components, particularly semiconductors, remains constrained due to global supply chain imbalances, capacity limitations and geopolitical tensions. Although conditions in the semiconductor market have stabilized somewhat, the broader supply chain remains subject to risks, including extended lead times, input cost inflation, production bottlenecks and macroeconomic disruptions. Events such as trade restrictions, tariffs, sanctions, natural disasters, regional conflicts and labor shortages continue to affect both our direct suppliers and upstream vendors. In addition, we depend on subcontractors to manufacture and deliver finished products to customers. If these subcontractors experience quality issues, production shortfalls, labor disruptions or financial instability, our product quality, delivery timelines and customer satisfaction may suffer. The consolidation of third-party manufacturers within the electronic component industry may reduce our supplier options and increase pricing leverage in favor of those vendors, potentially resulting in higher manufacturing costs. If we are unable to pass those costs on to customers, our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected. There is also intense competition for access to the most qualified and reliable subcontractors. If we are unable to maintain access to such partners or if their performance deteriorates, we may face significant challenges in scaling production or ensuring service-level commitments. Any resulting failure to fulfill customer orders on time and in accordance with contractual terms could lead to business interruptions, loss of key accounts, reputational harm, damage claims and reduced revenue. While we continuously monitor our supply chain and subcontractor performance and seek to diversify sources of supply where feasible, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively mitigate these risks. If we are unable to manage ongoing or future disruptions in our supply chain or subcontractor network, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological change, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to increase our market share. Our market is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product announcements. Significant technological changes could render our existing technology obsolete. We are active in the research and development of new products and technologies and in enhancing our current products. However, research and development in our industry is complex and filled with uncertainty. For example, it is common for research and development projects to encounter delays due to unforeseen problems, resulting in low initial volume production, fewer product features than originally considered desirable and higher production costs than initially budgeted, any of which may result in lost market opportunities. In addition, these new products 19 may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If our efforts do not lead to the successful development, marketing and release of new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences, our revenues and market share could be materially and adversely affected. We may expend a significant number of resources in unsuccessful research and development efforts. In addition, new products or enhancements by our competitors may cause customers to defer or forego purchases of our products. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to increase our market share. Inaccurate output from AI could result in brand and reputation damage. We have integrated AI and machine learning technologies into certain products and operational processes. While these technologies offer the potential for significant enhancements in performance, decision-making and customer insights, they also present material risks, including algorithmic bias, data integrity issues and lack of transparency or explainability. Inaccurate or unpredictable AI-generated outputs could result in operational failures, reputational damage, regulatory scrutiny or legal liability. Additionally, evolving AI regulations, such as the EU AI Act and prospective U.S. federal guidance, may impose additional compliance obligations, which could increase operational costs and limit certain product capabilities. We are subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation, vendor, and customer relationships, and our customers access to our services. We rely extensively on information technology systems, cloud infrastructure and third-party service providers to support critical business operations, including customer and financial data management. As a result, we face an increasing risk of cybersecurity threats, including ransomware attacks, insider threats and advanced persistent threats, some of which may be sponsored by nation-state actors. Despite our security measures, our information technology systems have been, and may continue to be, subject to cybersecurity threats and incidents. Any successful breach could result in unauthorized access to sensitive data, business interruption, financial loss or reputational harm. Furthermore, we are subject to various data protection laws and regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act and other similar international regimes. Noncompliance or breach incidents may result in significant financial penalties, remediation costs, regulatory investigations and private litigation. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and influenced by the following: advances in technology; new product introductions; evolving industry standards; product improvements; rapidly changing customer needs; intellectual property invention and protection; marketing and distribution capabilities; ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals; competition from highly capitalized companies; entrance of new competitors; ability of customers to invest in information technology; and price competition. The products marketed by us, and our competitors, are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of future products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by traditional computer, network and communications industry participants that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. 20 Although we are not aware of any current competitors that provide the precise capabilities of our systems, we are aware of competitors that offer similar approaches to address the customer needs that our products address. Those companies include both emerging companies with limited operating histories and companies with longer operating histories, greater name recognition and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours. We attempt to differentiate our solutions by continuing to innovate and by offering a choice of communication mode, patented battery management technology, sensor options, and installation configurations. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, including the development of superior products by our competitors, or if we are unable to otherwise compete successfully against our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to correctly and efficiently implement ERP and customer relationship management (CRM) systems could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We have started the process of implementing an integrated ERP and CRM system, starting with our North American and European businesses, leveraging the systems used by Fleet Complete. The overall aim is to have all of our businesses on the same ERP and CRM to enable management to achieve enhanced quality, reliability and timeliness of information, improve integration and visibility of information from different countries and optimize global management of corporate processes. The adoption of these systems, which will replace the various accounting systems within the individual operations, poses several challenges relating to, among other things, project governance, migration of data, potential instability of existing systems, changes to processes and controls, communication of new procedures, training of personnel and maintaining an effective control environment. We are aware of the potential risks associated with a global system implementation and intend to adopt mitigation plans and contingency plans, in order to ensure business continuity. However, there is no assurance that the ERP and CRM systems will be successfully implemented and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to execute on our strategy. The international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and economic instability in certain emerging markets. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies include, among others, the Euro, Israeli shekel, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Argentine peso, Brazilian real and South African rand. As a result, fluctuations in foreign exchange ratesparticularly in emerging marketscan significantly affect our reported revenue, expenses, and overall financial performance. Currency fluctuations, especially with respect to the South African rand, Mexican peso, and Brazilian real, may materially impact our income and expenses due to the translation of our foreign subsidiaries financial statements into U.S. dollars. For example, the majority of subscription agreements and operating expenses of our subsidiary, MiX Telematics, are denominated in foreign currencies and, therefore, subject to such fluctuations. In addition, several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, and large external deficits. Risks in one country can limit our opportunities for growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. As a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. In addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. We may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our operations that could have negative consequences on our business. We may require additional capital in the future to develop and commercialize additional products and technologies or take advantage of other opportunities that may arise, including potential acquisitions. We may seek to raise the necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, additional operating improvements, asset sales or strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. 21 To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. In addition, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or systems or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us in order to raise additional funds through strategic alliance, joint venture and licensing arrangements. We cannot provide assurance that the additional sources of funds will be available, or if available, would have reasonable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially and adversely affected. We rely significantly on third-party channel partners, including telecommunication companies and regional distributors, for market access and sales execution, and any disruption to, or our failure to develop and manage, our channel partners would harm our business. We depend substantially on third-party channel partnersincluding telecommunications providers, systems integrators, value-added resellers and managed service providersto market, sell, install and support our solutions in key domestic and international markets. These partners play a critical role in extending our global reach, accessing customer segments where direct sales are less effective or impractical, and delivering localized expertise. Recruiting, onboarding and retaining high-performing channel partners require considerable time, effort and financial investment. We must provide ongoing training and technical support to ensure that our partners possess the necessary product knowledge and capabilities to effectively position our offerings. As we expand our business and diversify our portfolio, the management and oversight of this partner ecosystem becomes increasingly complex and resource-intensive. To stay ahead of these challenges, we must continue to invest in the development of robust governance structures, compliance protocols, performance management systems and scalable partner enablement programs. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so, and failure to maintain a consistently high-performing channel may negatively impact our ability to execute our go-to-market strategy. We cannot assure you that our existing channel partners will maintain their historical performance levels, that we will be able to retain or grow these relationships on favorable terms or that new partners will be successfully recruited or onboarded. If we are unable to establish, maintain or grow effective distribution relationships, or if our key partners fail to meet expectations or cease carrying our products, our revenues, operating margins, market share and long-term strategic objectives could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends in large part on our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and contractual protections, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, to safeguard our proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, there is no assurance that our intellectual property portfolio will be able to prevent third parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, or that our rights will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Intellectual property protection is particularly difficult to enforce in certain jurisdictions where legal systems may not offer the same degree of protection as the United States. We may be unable to prevent unauthorized use of our technology, especially internationally, and may be limited in our ability to assert our rights due to jurisdictional barriers, enforcement limitations, or the cost and complexity of international litigation. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors and third-party providers may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of such breaches. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies or solutions that are substantially equivalent to, or derived from, ours, without violating our proprietary rights. We may also be subject to disputes with collaborators, contractors or other third parties over ownership or licensing of intellectual property developed through joint efforts, which could result in costly and time-consuming litigation or delays in research, development or commercialization. Any such dispute, even if resolved in our favor, could divert significant management attention and financial resources. 22 Additionally, we have been, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings relating to alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is inherently uncertain, expensive and disruptive to our business operations. Adverse outcomes in such proceedings could require us to: pay significant monetary damages or royalties; cease the manufacture, use, marketing or sale of products or services found to infringe; obtain licenses to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign our products or services to avoid infringement, which could require substantial time and expense. If we are unable to obtain necessary licenses, successfully defend against infringement claims or protect our own intellectual property rights, our ability to develop, commercialize and sell our products could be materially limited, and our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition, we have incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance the redemption of our then-outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock and the acquisition of Fleet Complete. The closing of debt and/or equity financing in an amount sufficient to provide for the redemption in full in cash of all then-outstanding shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock was a condition to closing the MiX Combination. On March 7, 2024, we, together with certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a facilities agreement (the Facilities Agreement) with FirstRand Bank Limited (acting through its Rand Merchant Bank division) (RMB), pursuant to which RMB agreed to provide us with two term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $85 million, composed of Facility A and Facility B, each with a principal amount of $42.5 million (RMB Facility A and RMB Facility B, respectively, and collectively, the RMB Facilities), the proceeds of which could be used to redeem all the then-outstanding shares our Series A convertible preferred stock and for general corporate purposes. On March 13, 2024, we drew down all $85 million available under such facilities. On April 2, 2024, concurrently with the closing of the MiX Combination, we used the net proceeds received from RMB and from incremental borrowing capacity as a result of the refinancing of Hapoalim Credit Facilities (as defined below) to redeem in full all of the then-outstanding shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock. Additionally, on September 27, 2024, we entered into a facility agreement (the Facility Agreement) with RMB, pursuant to which RMB agreed to provide us with a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $125 million (the New RMB Term Facility). On October 1, 2024, we drew down the full amount of the New RMB Term Facility and used the proceeds to pay a portion of the purchase price in the FC Acquisition. The indebtedness we incurred in connection with the MiX Combination and FC Acquisition will have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, will increase our borrowing costs and, to the extent that such indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, may increase our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available to fund efforts to combine our, MiX Telematics and Fleet Completes businesses and realize expected benefits of the MiX Combination and the FC Acquisition and/or engage in investments in product development, capital expenditures and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for the combined company relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Our Israeli subsidiaries have incurred significant indebtedness. On March 18, 2024, Powerfleet Israel Ltd. (Powerfleet Israel) and Pointer (together with Powerfleet Israel, the Borrowers) entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (as amended, the A&R Credit Agreement), with Bank Hapoalim B.M. (Hapoalim), which refinanced the facilities under, and amended and restated, the prior credit agreement, dated August 19, 2019 (as amended, the Prior Credit Agreement). The A&R Credit Agreement provides Powerfleet Israel with two senior secured term loan facilities denominated in New Israeli Shekel (NIS) in an aggregate principal amount of $30 million (comprised of two facilities in the aggregate principal amounts of $20 million and $10 million, respectively (Hapoalim Facility A and Hapoalim Facility B, respectively, and collectively, the Hapoalim Term Facilities)), and two revolving credit facilities to Pointer in an aggregate principal amount of $20 million (comprised of two revolvers in the aggregate principal amounts of $10 million and $10 million, respectively (Hapoalim Facility C and Hapoalim Facility D, respectively, and, collectively, the Hapoalim Revolving Facilities and, together with the Hapoalim Term Facilities, the Hapoalim Credit Facilities)). The outstanding amount under the facilities made available pursuant to the Prior Credit Agreement was approximately NIS 40.1 million, or $11.1 million, as of December 31, 2023. On March 18, 2024, Powerfleet 23 Israel drew down $30 million in cash under the Hapoalim Term Facilities and used the proceeds to prepay approximately $11.2 million, representing the remaining outstanding balance, of the term loans extended to Powerfleet Israel under the Prior Credit Agreement and distributed the remaining proceeds to Powerfleet. On December 30, 2024, the Borrowers entered into an amendment to the A&R Credit Agreement, which increased the principal amount available under Hapoalim Facility D from $10 million to $20 million and provides that the total principal amount of Hapoalim Facility D may be distributed to Powerfleet or any of its subsidiaries by no later than December 31, 2025, subject to certain terms and conditions of the A&R Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2025, the Borrowers had utilized $17.4 million under the Hapoalim Revolving Facilities. The undrawn facility balance at March 31, 2025, was $12.6 million. Such indebtedness will have the effect, among other things, of reducing Powerfleet Israels and Pointers flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, will increase our borrowing costs and, because such indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates and exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, may increase Powerfleet Israels and Pointers vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest and foreign exchange rates. The A&R Credit Agreement continues to require Powerfleet Israel and Pointer to satisfy various covenants, including negative covenants that directly or indirectly restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions without the consent of the lender. The indebtedness continues to be secured by first ranking and exclusive fixed and floating charges, including by Powerfleet Israel over the entire share capital of Pointer and by Pointer over all its assets, as well as cross guarantees between Powerfleet Israel and Pointer. This may also make it more difficult for us to engage in future transactions without the consent of the lender. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available to engage in investments in product development, capital expenditures and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. We may be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond its control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. The terms of the A&R Credit Agreement restrict Powerfleet Israels and Pointers current and future operations, particularly their ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The A&R Credit Agreement contains several restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Powerfleet Israel and Pointer and limits their ability to engage in acts that may be in their long-term best interest, including restrictions on their ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; incur liens; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; and enter into new lines of business. The A&R Credit Agreement also limits the ability of Powerfleet Israel and Pointer to consolidate or merge with or into another person. In addition, the covenants in the A&R Credit Agreement require Powerfleet Israel and Pointer to maintain specified financial ratios, tested quarterly. Their ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond their control, and they may be unable to meet them. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the A&R Credit Agreement could result in an event of default, which may allow the lender to accelerate the indebtedness thereunder. In addition, an event of default under the A&R Credit Agreement would permit the lender to terminate all commitments to extend further credit pursuant to the Revolving Facilities. Furthermore, if Powerfleet Israel and Pointer are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the A&R Credit Agreement, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure the indebtedness under the A&R Credit Agreement. In the event the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, Powerfleet Israel and Pointer may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. 24 As a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, new product development expenses and other general corporate requirements; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business or strategic acquisition opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. Goodwill impairment or intangible impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and more often if events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible intangible impairments if events occur, or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount of such intangible may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. Long-lived assets with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate the identified material weaknesses and maintain effective internal control, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and investor and customer confidence. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a management certification and an independent auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or any changes in internal control that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In 2025, we identified two material weaknesses related to: Design and execution of controls over journal entries at I.D. Systems and Pointer Recuperacin de Mxico, S.A. de C.V. (Pointer Mexico); and Controls over the financial close and reporting process at Fleet Complete - specifically, the controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of Fleet Completes financial reporting information that is consolidated into Powerfleets financial statements. For a discussion of the material weaknesses and our remediation efforts, see Item 9A,