Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of PowerFleet, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Powerfleet, the Company, we, our or us) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in Part I, Item 1 of this report. In the following discussions, most percentages and dollar amounts have been rounded to aid presentation, and, accordingly, all amounts are approximations. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), which may include information concerning the Companys beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, strategies, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures and other information that is not historical information. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond the Companys control, and which may cause the Companys actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words seek, estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, contemplate, plan, continue, intend, believe and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based upon the Companys current expectations and various assumptions. The Company believes there is a reasonable basis for its expectations and beliefs, but there can be no assurance that the Company will realize its expectations or that its beliefs will prove to be correct. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those expressed as forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited, to: future economic and business conditions, including the conflict in Israel and the Gaza Strip; the ability to recognize the anticipated benefit of the acquisition of Movingdots GmbH (Movingdots); the loss of any of the Companys key customers or reduction in the purchase of the Companys products by any such customers; the failure of the markets for the Companys products to continue to develop; the possibility that the Company may not be able to integrate successfully the business, operations and employees of Movingdots; the Companys inability to adequately protect its intellectual property; the Companys inability to manage growth; the effects of competition from a wide variety of local, regional, national and other providers of wireless solutions; changes in laws and regulations or changes in generally accepted accounting policies, rules and practices; changes in technology or products, which may be more difficult or costly, or less effective, than anticipated; the effects of outbreaks of pandemics or contagious diseases, including the length and severity of the recent global outbreak of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, and its impact on the Companys business; and other risks detailed from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including the Companys annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Annual Report). There may be other factors of which the Company is currently unaware or which it currently deems immaterial that may cause its actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on the Companys behalf apply only as of the date they are made and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, or otherwise. The Company makes available through its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports and other filings made by the Company with the SEC, as soon as practicable after the Company electronically files such reports and filings with the SEC. The Companys website address is www.powerfleet.com. The information contained in the Companys website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 28 Overview Powerfleet is a global leader of Internet-of-Things (IoT) solutions providing valuable business intelligence for managing high-value enterprise assets that improve operational efficiencies. We are headquartered in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, with offices located around the globe. On October 10, 2023, we entered into an Implementation Agreement (the Implementation Agreement), by and among us, Main Street 2000 Proprietary Limited, a private company incorporated in the Republic of South Africa and our wholly owned subsidiary (Powerfleet Sub), and MiX Telematics Limited, a public company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of South Africa (MiX Telematics), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, Powerfleet Sub will acquire all of the issued ordinary shares of MiX Telematics (including those represented by MiX Telematics American Depositary Shares) through the implementation of a scheme of arrangement (the Scheme) in accordance with Sections 114 and 115 of the South African Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, as amended (the Companies Act), in exchange for shares of our common stock. As a result of the transactions, including the Scheme, contemplated by the Implementation Agreement (the Scheme Transactions), MiX Telematics will become our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary. The Scheme Transactions have been approved by the boards of directors of both companies, are subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders and MiX Telematics shareholders, and are expected to close in the first quarter of 2024. Our Powerfleet for Industrial solutions are designed to provide on-premise or in-facility asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for industrial trucks such as forklifts, man-lifts, tuggers and ground support equipment at airports. These solutions utilize a variety of communications capabilities such as Bluetooth, WiFi, and proprietary radio frequency. Our Powerfleet for Logistics solutions are designed to provide bumper-to-bumper asset management, monitoring, and visibility for over-the-road based assets such as heavy trucks, dry-van trailers, refrigerated trailers and shipping containers and their associated cargo. These systems provide mobile-asset tracking and condition-monitoring solutions to meet the transportation markets desire for greater visibility, safety, security, and productivity throughout global supply chains. Our Powerfleet for Vehicles solutions are designed both to enhance the vehicle fleet management process, whether its a rental car, a private fleet, or automotive original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners. We achieve this by providing critical information that can be used to increase revenues, reduce costs and improve customer service. Our patented technologies are a proven solution for organizations that must monitor and analyze their assets to improve safety, increase efficiency, reduce costs, and drive profitability. Our offerings are sold under the global brands Powerfleet, Pointer, and Cellocator. We have an established history of IoT device development and innovation creating devices that can withstand harsh and rugged environments. With 46 patents and patent applications and over 25 years experience, we believe we are well positioned to evolve our offerings for even greater value to customers through our cloud-based applications for unified operations. We deliver advanced data solutions that connect mobile assets to increase visibility, operational efficiency and profitability. Across our spectrum of vertical markets, we differentiate ourselves by developing mobility platforms that collect data from unique sensors. Further, because we are original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agnostic, we help organizations view and manage their mixed assets homogeneously. All of our solutions are paired with software as a service (SaaS) and analytics platforms to provide an even deeper level of insights and understanding of how assets are utilized and how drivers and operators operate those assets. These insights include a full set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to drive operational and strategic decisions. Our customers typically get a return on their investment in less than 12 months from deployment. Our enterprise software applications have machine learning capabilities and are built to integrate with our customers management systems to provide a single, integrated view of asset and operator activity across multiple locations while providing real-time enterprise-wide benchmarks and peer-industry comparisons. We look for analytics, as well as the data contained therein, to differentiate us from our competitors, adding significant value to customers business operations, and helping to contribute to their bottom line. Our solutions also feature open application programming interfaces (APIs) for additional integrations and development to boost other enterprise management systems and third-party applications. We market and sell our connected IoT data solutions to a wide range of customers in the commercial and government sectors. Our customers operate in diverse markets, such as manufacturing, automotive manufacturing, wholesale and retail, food and grocery distribution, pharmaceutical and medical distribution, construction, mining, utilities, aerospace, vehicle rental, as well as logistics, shipping, transportation, and field services. Traditionally, these businesses have relied on manual, often paper-based, processes or on-premise legacy software to operate their high-value assets, manage workforce resources, and distributed sites; and face environmental, safety, and other regulatory requirements. In todays landscape, it is crucial for these businesses to invest in solutions that enable easy analysis and sharing of real-time information. 29 Our Solutions We provide critical actionable information that powers unified operations throughout organizations. We are solving the challenge of inefficient data collection, real-time visibility, and analysis that leads to transformative business operations. Our SaaS cloud-based applications take data from our IoT devices and ecosystem of third-party and partner applications to present actionable information for customers to increase efficiencies, improve safety and security, and increase their profitability in easy-to-understand reports, dashboards, and real-time alerts. Our objective is to become a leading global provider of IoT SaaS solutions for high-value enterprise assets to drive optimized operations and create safer environments. In the first quarter of 2023 we began to consolidate and augment many of our existing capabilities on a single customer software platform branded as Unity. We have designed our Unity platform to enable rapid and deep integration with IoT devices and third-party business systems to a highly scalable data pipeline that powers artificial intelligence-driven insights to help companies save lives, time, and money. Unity is an increasingly important initiative to meet our objective of becoming a leading global provider of IoT SaaS solutions for high-value enterprise assets to drive optimized operations and create safer environments. To achieve this goal, we intend to prove value, retain and grow business with existing customers and pursue opportunities with new customers by: focusing our business solutions by vertical markets and go to market strategies to each market; positioning ourselves as an innovative thought leader; maintaining a world class sales and marketing team; identifying, seizing, and managing revenue opportunities; expanding our customer base, achieving wider market penetration and educating customers with mixed assets in their organization about our other applications; implementing improved marketing, sales and support strategies; shortening our initial sales cycles by helping our customers through: identifying and quantifying benefits expected from our solutions; accelerating transitions from implementation to roll-out; and building service revenue through long-term SaaS contracts; differentiating our product offering through analytics, machine learning, unique sensors, and value-added services; producing incremental revenue at a high profit margin; and expanding our partnerships and integrations. We also plan to expand into new applications and markets by: pursuing opportunities to integrate our system with computer hardware and software vendors, including: OEMs; transportation management systems; warehouse management systems; labor and timecard systems; enterprise resource planning; and yard management systems; establishing relationships with global distributors; and evaluating and pursuing strategically sound acquisitions of companies. 30 Key Applications of our IoT Solutions We provide real-time intelligence for organizations with high-value assets allowing them to make informed decisions and ultimately improve their operations, safety, and bottom line. Our applications enable organizations to capture IoT data from various types of assets with devices and sensors creating a holistic view for analysis and action. The core applications that our IoT solutions address include: End-to-end Visibility: Organizations with expensive assets such as vehicles, machinery, or equipment need to keep track of where the assets are located, monitor for misuse, and understand how and when assets are being used. By having complete visibility of their assets, customers can improve security, utilization and customer service. In addition, our visibility solutions help with personnel workflows and resource management, freight visibility through load status, equipment availability status, dwell and idle time, geofencing, two-way temperature control and management, multizone temperature monitoring, arrival and departure times, and supply chain allocation. Regulatory Compliance: Businesses must comply with government regulations and provide proof of compliance, which is commonly an onerous process to enforce and maintain. Our solutions provide critical data points and reports to help customers stay within compliance, avoid fines for non-compliance, and automate the reporting process. We deliver real-time position reports, hours-of-service, temperature monitoring and control, electronic safety checklists, workflow management, controlling vehicle access to only authorized operators, inspection reports, and history logs of use. Improve Safety: Our applications are designed to provide asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for safer environments. Our solutions allow our customers to monitor their fleet of vehicles on various parameters, including but not limited to, vehicle location, speed, engine fault codes, driver behavior, eco-driving, and ancillary sensors and can receive reports and alerts, either automatically or upon request wirelessly via the internet, email, mobile phone or an SMS. In addition, our dash camera provides critical video capture that can be used to help exonerate drivers when in accidents or help bolster training and coaching programs of employees. We also offer preventative solutions such as safety warning products to alert vehicle operators of objects or pedestrians in their pathway to prevent accidents, injuries, and damage. Our analytics platform features dashboards with KPIs and can help managers identify patterns, trends and outliers that can be used as flags for interventions. Drive Operational Efficiency & Productivity: To increase utilization of mobile assets, our solutions enable the identification of a change in status, real-time location, geo-fencing alerts when an asset is approaching or leaving its destination, cargo status, and on-board intelligence utilizing a motion sensor and proprietary logic that identifies the beginning of a drive and the end of a drive. Having this information enables customers to increase capacity, speed of service, right-size their fleets, and improve communication internally and with customers. In addition, customers can increase revenue per mile, reduce claims and claims processing times, and reduce the number of assets needed. This is achieved through proving such things as two-way integrated workflows for drivers, control assignments and work change, Electronic Driver Logging (ELD) and automated record keeping for regulatory compliance, monitoring of asset pools and geofence violations, and various reporting insights that flag under-utilized assets, the closest assets, and alerts on dwell time and exceeding the allotted time for loading and unloading. 31 We help customers to automate processes and increase productivity of their employees. Our applications enable customers to determine where operators are assigned and can temporarily reassign them based on peak needs, evaluate any disparity in the amount employees are paid compared to the time they actually spend operating a vehicle. Our applications help answer the question of why does it take some employees longer than others to do specific tasks, where to focus labor resources, and how to forecast vehicles and operators needed for future workflow. In addition, for our rental car vertical, our applications automatically upload vehicle identification number, mileage and fuel data as a vehicle enters and exits the rental lot, which can significantly expedite the rental and return processes for travelers, and provide the rental company with more timely inventory status, more accurate billing data that can generate higher fuel-related revenue, and an opportunity to utilize customer service personnel for more productive activities, such as inspecting vehicles for damage and helping customers with luggage. Our solution for car sharing permits a rental car company to remotely control, track and monitor their rental vehicles wherever they are parked. Whether for traditional pod-based rental or for the emerging rent-anywhere model, the system, through APIs integrated into any rental companys fleet management system, (i) manages member reservations by smart phone or Internet, and (ii) charges members for vehicle use by the hour. For our customers with a variety of make-model-years in their fleet, we have developed an unmatched library of certified vehicle code interfaces through our second-generation On-Board Diagnostics (OBD-II), industry standard. Our patented fleet management system helps fleet owners improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Increase Security: Our solutions allow our customers to reduce theft and improve inventory management. Customers can lockdown their assets with automated e-mail or text message alerts, emergency tracking of assets (higher frequency of reports) if theft is expected, geo-fencing alerts when an asset enters a prohibited geography or location, and near real-time sensors that alert based on changes in temperature and shock, among other things. We also provide stolen vehicle retrieval (SVR) services. Most of the SVR products used to provide our SVR services are mainly sold to (i) local car dealers and importers that in turn sell the products equipped in the vehicle to the end users who purchase the SVR services directly from us, or (ii) leasing companies which purchase our SVR services in order to secure their own vehicles. Reduce Costs We enable our customers to improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Our solutions provide engine performance, machine diagnostics, fuel consumption, and battery life to improve preventative maintenance scheduling, increase uptime, and gain a longer service life of equipment. Through our software applications, customers can optimize capacity, analyze resource allocation, and improve utilization of assets to reduce capital expenses such as purchasing new or leasing additional equipment. Our applications provide root cause analysis for any cargo claims and helps with exoneration of drivers in accidents via dash camera visibility. Analytics and Machine Learning Our analytics platforms provide our customers with a holistic view of their asset activity across their enterprise. For example, our image machine learning system allows us to process images from our freight camera and other sources and identify key aspects of operations and geospatial information such as location, work being accomplished, type of cargo, how cargo is loaded and if there are any visible issues such as damage. Key Performance Indicators & Benchmarks Our cloud-based software applications provide a single, integrated view of asset activity across multiple locations, generating enterprise-wide benchmarks, peer-industry comparisons, and deeper insights into asset operations. In addition, our customers can set real-time alerts for exception-based reporting or critical activity that needs immediate attention. This enables management teams to make more informed, effective decisions, raise asset performance standards, increase productivity, reduce costs, and enhance safety. Specifically, our analytics platforms allow users to quantify best-practice enterprise benchmarks for asset utilization and safety, reveal variations and inefficiencies in asset activity across both sites and geographic regions, or identify opportunities to eliminate or reallocate assets, to reduce capital and operating costs. We provide an extensive set of decision-making tools and a variety of standard and customized reports to help businesses improve overall operations. We look for analytics and machine learning to make a growing contribution to drive platform and SaaS revenue, further differentiate our offerings and add value to our solutions. We also use our analytics platform for our own internal platform quality control. 32 Services Hosting Services: We provide the use of our systems as a remotely hosted service, with the system server and application software residing in our colocation center or on a cloud platform providers infrastructure (e.g., Azure, AWS). This approach helps us reduce support costs and improve quality control. It separates the system from the restrictions of the customers local IT networks, which helps reduce their system support efforts and makes it easier for them to receive the benefits of system enhancements and upgrades. Our hosting services are typically offered with extended maintenance and support services over a multi-year term of service, with automatic renewals following the end of the initial term. Software as a Service: We provide system monitoring, help desk technical support, escalation procedure development, routine diagnostic data analysis and software updates services as part of the ongoing contract term. These services ensure deployed systems remain in optimal performance condition throughout the contract term and provide access to newly developed features and functions on an annual basis. Maintenance Services: We provide a warranty on the hardware components of our system. During the warranty period, we either replace or repair defective hardware. We also make extended maintenance contracts available to customers and offer ongoing maintenance and support on a time and materials basis. Customer Support and Consulting Services for Ease of Use, Adoption, and Added Value: We have developed a framework for the various phases of system training and support that offer our customers both structure and flexibility. Major training phases include hardware installation and troubleshooting, software installation and troubleshooting, train-the-trainer training on asset hardware operation, preliminary software user training, system administrator training, information technology issue training, ad hoc training during system launch and advanced software user training. Increasingly, training services are provided through scalable online interactive training tools. Support and consulting services are priced based on the extent of training that the customer requests. To help our customers derive the most benefit from our system, we supply a broad range of documentation and support including videos, interactive online tools, hardware user guides, software manuals, vehicle installation overviews, troubleshooting guides, and issue escalation procedures. We provide our consulting services both as a standalone service to study the potential benefits of implementing an IoT business intelligence solution and as part of the system implementation itself. In some instances, customers prepay us for extended maintenance, support and consulting services. In those instances, the payment amount is recorded as deferred revenue and revenue is recognized over the service period. Recent Developments Higher interest rates and inflation, fluctuations in currency values, supply chain disruptions and the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, primarily in Ukraine, and between Israel and Hamas, primarily in the Gaza Strip, have resulted in significant economic disruption and adversely impacted the broader global economy, including our customers and suppliers. Given the dynamic and uncertain nature of the current macroeconomic environment, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of such developments on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows into the foreseeable future. The ultimate extent of the effects of these developments remain highly uncertain, and such effects could exist for an extended period of time. Risks to Our Business We expect that many customers who utilize our solutions will do so as part of a large-scale deployment of these solutions across multiple or all divisions of their organizations. A customers decision to deploy our solutions throughout its organization will involve a significant commitment of its resources. Accordingly, initial implementations may precede any decision to deploy our solutions enterprise-wide. Throughout this sales cycle, we may spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the benefits of our solutions, and there can be no assurance that our solutions will be deployed on a wider scale by the customer. 33 The timing of the deployment of our solutions may vary widely and will depend on the specific deployment plan of each customer, the complexity of the customers organization and the difficulty of such deployment. Customers with substantial or complex organizations may deploy our solutions in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of our limited operating history and the nature of our business, we cannot predict the timing or size of these sales and deployment cycles. Long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to place large orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. These variations could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to increase our revenues and generate net income will depend on a number of factors, including, for example, our ability to: increase sales of products and services to our existing customers; convert our initial programs into larger or enterprise-wide purchases by our customers; increase market acceptance and penetration of our products; and develop and commercialize new products and technologies. The Implementation Agreement requires, as a condition to closing of the transactions contemplated therein, that we obtain a debt and/or equity financing (the Financing) in an amount sufficient to provide for the redemption in full of all outstanding shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (Series A Preferred Stock). We are in the process of securing the Financing (including, without limitation, a refinancing of our credit facility with Bank Hapoalim B.M. (Hapoalim)). We have incurred recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and had an accumulated deficit of $143.3 million as of September 30, 2023. We anticipate incurring additional losses until such time that growth in revenue and gross margin from our strategic plan centered on our Unity SaaS platform and Industrial safety product offerings exceed necessary investments in operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt financing costs. We have received credit committee approval from our existing lender, Hapoalim, to enter into a new 5-year term debt facility with an approximate value of $30 million. While we believe it is highly probable that we will enter into a binding credit agreement by year end, there can be no assurance that we will enter into such a credit agreement. If we do not enter into a binding credit agreement with Hapoalim by year end, we may be required to delay key strategic product initiatives and market expansion activities, which could adversely affect our business prospects. Management believes our cash and cash equivalents of $19.6 million as of September 30, 2023 in conjunction with cash generated from the execution of our strategic plan over the next 12 months, are sufficient to fund the projected operations for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of these financial statements (November 13, 2024) and service our outstanding obligations. Such expectation is based, in part, on the achievement of a certain volume of assumed revenue and gross margin; however, there is no guarantee we will achieve this amount of revenue and gross margin during the assumed time period. Management assessed various additional operating cost reduction options that are available to us and would be implemented, if assumed levels of revenue and gross margin are not achieved and additional funding is not obtained. Additional risks and uncertainties to which we are subject are described under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report and in our 2022 Annual Report. Critical Accounting Policies For the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2023, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as identified in our 2022 Annual Report. 34 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating information expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2023 2022 2023 Revenues: Products 40.9 % 38.4 % 42.4 % 36.9 % Services 59.1 % 61.6 % 57.6 % 63.1 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues: Cost of products 28.7 % 25.9 % 32.5 % 26.6 % Cost of services 21.2 % 24.1 % 20.7 % 23.1 % 49.9 % 49.9 % 53.1 % 49.8 % Gross profit 50.1 % 50.1 % 46.8 % 50.2 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 48.6 % 52.6 % 46.4 % 52.2 % Research and development expenses 5.1 % 7.0 % 6.8 % 6.3 % Total operating expenses 53.7 % 59.6 % 53.2 % 58.6 % Loss from operations -3.6 % -9.5 % -6.4 % -8.4 % Interest income 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.1 % Interest expense, net -1.0 % -0.5 % 1.3 % -0.5 % Bargain purchase - Movingdots 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 7.6 % Other (expense) income, net 0.0 % -0.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss before income taxes -4.5 % -10.0 % -5.1 % -1.2 % Income tax expense -2.2 % -0.8 % -0.1 % -0.7 % Net loss before non-controlling interest -6.7 % -10.7 % -5.2 % -1.9 % Non-controlling interest 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss -6.7 % -10.7 % -5.2 % -1.9 % Accretion of preferred stock -0.5 % -0.5 % -0.5 % -0.5 % Preferred stock dividend -3.1 % -3.3 % -3.1 % -3.4 % Net loss attributable to common stockholders -10.3 % -14.5 % -8.8 % -5.8 % 35 Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 REVENUES. Revenues decreased by approximately $0.1 million, or 0.3%, to $34.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $34.3 million in the same period in 2022. Revenues from products decreased approximately $0.9 million, or 6.2%, to $13.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $14.0 million in the same period in 2022. The decrease in product revenue was principally due to decreased product sales in Germany, where we are actively shutting down sales from low margin contracts, and lower product sales in and out of Israel reflecting geopolitical headwinds and a proactive decision to shutter our hardware-only line of business. These decreases were offset by increases in product revenue in our Powerfleet US business due to new unit purchases from new and existing customers. Revenues from services increased approximately $0.8 million, or 3.8%, to $21.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $20.3 million in the same period in 2022. The increase in services revenues was principally due to an increase in our installed base that generates service revenue offset in part by the impact of negative foreign currency shifts in our international business. COST OF REVENUES. Cost of revenues decreased by approximately $0.03 million, or 0.2%, to $17.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $17.1 million for the same period in 2022. Gross profit was $17.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $17.2 million for the same period in 2022. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit was 50.1% for both periods. Cost of products decreased by approximately $1.0 million, or 10.1%, to $8.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $9.8 million in the same period in 2022. Gross profit for products was $4.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $4.2 million in the same period in 2022. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit increased to 32.7% in 2023 from 29.8% in 2022. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenues was impacted by product mix, improvement in management of raw material costs, and lower inflationary costs in the 2023 period versus the 2022 period. Cost of services increased by approximately $1.0 million, or 13.3%, to $8.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from $7.3 million in the same period in 2022. Gross profit for services was $12.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $12.9 million in the same period in 2022. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit decreased to 60.9% in 2023 from 64.1% in 2022. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenues was impacted by product mix, inflation and the commencement of depreciation for our Unity SaaS platform. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased by approximately $1.3 million, or 7.9%, to approximately $17.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $16.7 million in the same period in 2022, principally due to the acquisition of Movingdots, which added $0.7 million to expenses, severance costs of $0.1 million, and an additional $1.2 million in transaction costs in the quarter related to the Scheme Transactions. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 52.6% in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from 48.6% in the same period in 2022. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES. Research and development (R&D) expenses increased by approximately $0.6 million, or 37.4%, to approximately $2.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $1.7 million in the same period in 2022, principally due to higher employee costs following the acquisition of Movingdots, which added $0.6 million to expense. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses increased to 7.0% in the three months ended September 30, 2023, from 5.1% in the same period in 2022. NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS. Net loss attributable to common stockholders was $4.9 million, or $(0.14) per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to net loss of $3.5 million, or $(0.10) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2022. The increase in net loss was primarily the result of the increased SG&A, including transaction costs associated with our proposed business combination with Mix Telematics and higher R&D expenses following our acquisition of Movingdots. 36 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 REVENUES. Revenues decreased by approximately $3.0 million, or 2.9%, to $99.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $102.0 million in the same period in 2022. Revenues from products decreased by approximately $6.7 million, or 15.4%, to $36.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $43.2 million in the same period in 2022. The decrease in product revenues was due to decreased product sales in Germany, where we are actively shutting down sales from low margin contracts, large logistics companies recalibrating demand following aggressive builds during the pandemic, and lower product sales in and out of Israel reflecting geopolitical headwinds and a proactive decision to shutter our hardware-only line of business. Revenues from services increased by approximately $3.7 million, or 6.3%, to $62.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $58.8 million in the same period in 2022. The increase in services revenues is principally due to an increase in our install base that generates service revenue offset in part by the impact of negative foreign currency shifts in our international business. COST OF REVENUES. Cost of revenues decreased by approximately $4.9 million, or 9.1%, to $49.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $54.2 million for the same period in 2022. Gross profit was $49.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $47.8 million for the same period in 2022. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit increased to 50.2% in 2023 from 46.9% in 2022. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenues was principally due to decisions to stop fulfilling low margin orders, the decrease in raw materials costs related to the global supply chain issues, which were more prevalent in 2022 than 2023, and increases in high margin service revenues. Cost of products decreased by approximately $6.8 million, or 20.4%, to $26.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $33.2 million in the same period in 2022. Gross profit for products was $10.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $10.1 million in the same period in 2022. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit increased to 27.8% in 2023 from 23.3% in 2022 principally due to decisions to stop fulfilling low margin orders and the decrease in raw materials costs related to the global supply chain issues, which were more prevalent in 2022 than 2023. Cost of services increased by approximately $1.8 million, or 8.7%, to $22.9 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from $21.1 million in the same period in 2022. Gross profit for services was $39.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $37.7 million in the same period in 2022. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit decreased to 63.3% in 2023 from 64.2% in 2022 due in part to the commencement of depreciation for our Unity SaaS platform. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. SG&A expenses increased by approximately $4.3 million, or 9.2%, to approximately $51.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $47.4 million in the same period in 2022. The increase was principally due to an aggregate of $1.7 million in transaction-related costs in connection with our acquisition of Movingdots and our proposed business combination with MiX Telematics, the acquisition of Movingdots which added $1.3 million in SG&A costs, $0.4 million of restructuring expenses, and increased salaries, investments in marketing programs and professional services fees. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 52.2% in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from 46.4% in the same period in 2022, primarily due to the reasons described above. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES. R&D expenses decreased by approximately $0.7 million, or 9.8%, to approximately $6.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $7.0 million in the same period in 2022, principally due to the capitalization of software development expenses for new product development and reduction in salaries and wages offset in part by the acquisition of Movingdots, which added $1.3 million to expenses. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses decreased to 6.3% in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, from 6.8% in the same period in 2022, primarily due to the reason described above. INTEREST EXPENSE. Interest expense decreased by approximately $1.7 million, or 136.8%, to approximately $(0.4) million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to $1.3 million in the same period in 2022, principally due to foreign currency translation gains from our two senior secured term loan facilities with Hapoalim. NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS. Net loss attributable to common stockholders was $5.7 million, or $(0.16) per basic and diluted share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, as compared to net loss of $9.0 million, or $(0.25) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2022. The decrease in net loss was due primarily to the bargain purchase for Movingdots and a reduction in interest expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our capital requirements have been funded primarily from the net proceeds from the issuance of our securities, including any issuances of our common stock upon the exercise of options. As of September 30, 2023, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $19.6 million and working capital of $34.5 million. On October 3, 2019, in connection with our acquisition of Pointer, we issued and sold 50,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, to ABRY Senior Equity V, L.P., ABRY Senior Equity Co-Investment Fund V, L.P and ABRY Investment Partnership, L.P. (the Investors), pursuant to the terms of an Investment and Transaction Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2019 (as such agreement has been amended from time to time, the Investment Agreement), for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million. The proceeds received from such sale were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. 37 In addition, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Powerfleet Israel and Pointer (collectively, the Borrowers) are party to a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Hapoalim, effective as of October 3, 2019, pursuant to which Hapoalim agreed to provide Powerfleet Israel with two senior secured term loan facilities denominated in NIS in an initial aggregate principal amount of $30 million (comprised of the two facilities in the aggregate principal amount of $20 million (the Term A Facility) and $10 million (the Term B Facility)) and a five-year revolving credit facility to Pointer denominated in NIS in an initial aggregate principal amount of $10 million (the Revolving Facility) all of which matures on October 3, 2024. The outstanding amount under the term loan facilities was approximately NIS41,800, or $10,900, as of September 30, 2023. The proceeds of the term loan facilities were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used by Pointer for general corporate purposes. On August 23, 2021, the Borrowers entered into an amendment (the Amendment), effective as of August 1, 2021, to the Credit Agreement with Hapoalim. The Amendment memorializes the agreements between the Borrowers and Hapoalim regarding a reduction in the interest rates of the Term A Facility and the Term B Facility. Pursuant to the Amendment, commencing as of November 12, 2020, the interest rate with respect to the Term A Facility was reduced to a fixed rate of 3.65% per annum and the interest rate with respect to the Term B Facility was reduced to a fixed rate of 4.5% per annum. The Amendment also provides, among other things, for (i) a reduction in the credit allocation fee on undrawn and uncancelled amounts of the Revolving Facility from 1% to 0.5% per annum, (ii) removal of the requirement that Powerfleet Israel maintain $3,000 on deposit in a separate reserve fund, and (iii) modifications to certain of the affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant regarding the ratio of the Borrowers debt levels to Pointers EBITDA. As of September 30, 2023, we borrowed approximately NIS8,420, or $2,200, under the revolving credit facilities. On October 31, 2022, the Borrowers entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Third Amendment) with Hapoalim. The Third Amendment provides for, among other things, a new revolving credit facility to Pointer denominated in NIS in an initial aggregate principal amount of $10 million (the New Revolver). The New Revolver is available for a period of one month that commenced on October 31, 2022, and will continue to be available for successive one-month periods until and including October 30, 2023, unless the Borrowers deliver a notice to Hapoalim of their request not to renew the New Revolver. As of September 30, 2023, we borrowed approximately NIS32,500, or $8,500, under the New Revolver. The New Revolver will initially bear interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 2.59%. Such interest is subject to monthly changes by Hapoalim, provided that Hapoalim gives Pointer advance notice regarding such change prior to the end of the applicable calendar month. The New Revolver is secured by a first ranking fixed pledge and assignment by Pointer over its new bank account, which was opened in connection with the New Revolver, and all of the rights relating thereunder as well as a cross guarantee by Powerfleet Israel. Pointer is required to pay a credit allocation fee equal to 0.5% per annum on undrawn and uncancelled amounts of the New Revolver. In connection with the Implementation Agreement, we are in the process of securing the Financing (including, without limitation, a refinancing of our credit facility with Hapoalim) in an amount sufficient to provide for the redemption in full of our Series A Preferred Stock. As a result of global supply chain disruptions, the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and between Israel and Hamas, higher interest rates, fluctuations in currency values, inflation and other cost increases, there remains uncertainty surrounding the potential impact of such events on our results of operations and cash flows. We are proactively taking steps to increase available cash on hand including, but not limited to, targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses and capital expenditures and borrowing under our revolving credit facilities. On March 31, 2023, we completed our acquisition of Movingdots. We believe this acquisition has provided, and will continue to provide, significant additional liquidity, with net cash proceeds of $8.7 million expected to exceed the associated transaction, integration, and rationalization costs. See Business Acquisitions below for more information regarding the acquisition of Movingdots. Capital Requirements As of September 30, 2023, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $19.6 million and working capital of $34.5 million. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from the sale of our products and services, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facility. Our capital requirements depend on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the length of the sales cycle, the rate of increase or decrease in our existing business base, the success, timing, and amount of investment required to bring new products to market, revenue growth or decline and potential acquisitions. Failure to generate positive cash flow from operations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the Implementation Agreement, we are in the process of securing the Financing (including, without limitation, a refinancing of our credit facility with Hapoalim) in an amount sufficient to provide for the redemption in full of our Series A Preferred Stock. We have incurred recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and had an accumulated deficit of $143.3 million as of September 30, 2023. We anticipate incurring additional losses until such time that growth in revenue and gross margin from our strategic plan centered on our Unity SaaS platform and Industrial safety product offerings exceed necessary investments in operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt financing costs. We have received credit committee approval from our existing lender, Hapoalim, to enter into a new 5-year term debt facility with an approximate value of $30 million. While we believe it is highly probable that we will enter into a binding credit agreement by year end, there can be no assurance that we will enter into such a credit agreement. If we do not enter into a binding credit agreement with Hapoalim by year end, we may be required to delay key strategic product initiatives and market expansion activities, which could adversely affect our business prospects. Management believes our cash and cash equivalents of $19.6 million as of September 30, 2023 in conjunction with cash generated from the execution of our strategic plan over the next 12 months, are sufficient to fund the projected operations for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of these financial statements (November 13, 2024) and service our outstanding obligations. Such expectation is based, in part, on the achievement of a certain volume of assumed revenue and gross margin; however, there is no guarantee we will achieve this amount of revenue and gross margin during the assumed time period. Management assessed various additional operating cost reduction options that are available to us and would be implemented, if assumed levels of revenue and gross margin are not achieved and additional funding is not obtained. Operating Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $0.2 million, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $1.7 million for the same period in 2022. The net cash used in operating activities for the nine-months of 2023 primarily included a non-operating cash benefit of $7.5 million for gain on bargain purchase relating to the acquisition of Movingdots, non-cash charges of $2.8 million for stock-based compensation, $6.9 million for depreciation and amortization expense, and $1.9 million for right-of-use asset amortization. Changes in operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in inventory, net of reserve of $1.6 million, an increase in accounts payable of $1.1 million, and a decrease in lease liabilities of $1.9 million. 38 Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $3.3 million, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $4.0 million for the same period in 2022. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to $8.7 million in net proceeds from the acquisition of Movingdots, partially offset by $2.6 million for the purchase of fixed assets and $2.7 million for capitalized software development costs. In contrast, the net cash used in investing activities of $4.0 million in the same period in 2022 was primarily for the purchase of fixed assets. Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $1.3 million, compared to $0.5 million for the same period in 2022. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the repayment of preferred stock dividends in cash for the quarters ended June 30, 2023 and September 30, 2023 totaling $2.2 million, net of the changes in the repayment of long-term debt and change in short-term debt, net balance. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2023, there have been no material charges in contractual obligations as disclosed under the caption Contractual Obligations and Commitments in Item 7 of our 2022 Annual Report. Inflation Inflation and other macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. have resulted in higher costs of raw materials, freight, and labor, which has impacted our operating costs. In addition, we operate in several emerging market economies that are particularly vulnerable to the impact of inflationary pressures that could materially and adversely impact our operations in the foreseeable future. Business Acquisitions In addition to focusing on our core applications, we adapt our systems to meet our customers broader asset management needs and seek opportunities to expand our solution offerings through strategic acquisitions. On March 6, 2023, we entered into a definitive share purchase and transfer agreement (the SPA) with Swiss Re Reinsurance Holding Company Ltd (Swiss Re) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Movingdots for consideration consisting of 1 and the issuance by us of a ten-year warrant to purchase 800,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.00 per share. Under the SPA, Swiss Re was required to ensure that Movingdots had available cash and cash equivalents of at least 8,000,000 as of the closing date. The transaction closed on March 31, 2023. On October 10, 2023, we entered into the Implementation Agreement with Powerfleet Sub and MiX Telematics, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, Powerfleet Sub will acquire all of the issued ordinary shares of MiX Telematics, including those represented by MiX Telematics American Depositary Shares, through the implementation of the Scheme in accordance with Sections 114 and 115 of the Companies Act, in exchange for shares of our common stock. As a result of the Scheme Transactions, MiX Telematics will become our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary. The Scheme Transactions have been approved by the boards of directors of both companies, are subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders and MiX Telematics shareholders. The Scheme Transactions are expected to close in the first quarter of 2024. At the closing of the Scheme Transactions, the combined company will remain Powerfleet and our common stock will continue to be listed on The Nasdaq Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange under the symbol PWFL. Additionally, our common stock will be listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange by way of a secondary inward listing. MiX Telematics is a leading global provider of fleet and mobile asset management solutions delivered as SaaS to over one million global subscribers spanning more than 120 countries. MiX Telematics products and services provide enterprise fleets, small fleets, and consumers with efficiency, safety, compliance, and security solutions. The pending Scheme Transactions are expected to provide us with operational synergies and access to a broader base of customers. The pending Scheme Transactions will be accounted for as a business combination and we have been identified as the accounting acquirer. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company is subject to recently issued accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. For a description of these new accounting standards, see Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference. 39