Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Powerfleet, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Powerfleet, we, our or us) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in Part I, Item 1 of this report. In the following discussions, most percentages and dollar amounts have been rounded to aid presentation, and, accordingly, all amounts are approximations. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), which may include information concerning the Companys beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, strategies, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures and other information that is not historical information. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond the Companys control, and which may cause the Companys actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words seek, estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, contemplate, plan, continue, intend, believe and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based upon the Companys current expectations and various assumptions. The Company believes there is a reasonable basis for its expectations and beliefs, but there can be no assurance that the Company will realize its expectations or that its beliefs will prove to be correct. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those expressed as forward-looking statements herein include, but are not limited, to: future economic and business conditions; the ability to recognize the anticipated benefit of the acquisition of Pointer Telocation Ltd. (Pointer); the loss of any of the Companys key customers or reduction in the purchase of the Companys products by any such customers; the failure of the markets for the Companys products to continue to develop; the possibility that the Company may not be able to integrate successfully the business, operations and employees of I.D. Systems, Inc. (I.D. Systems) and Pointer; the Companys inability to adequately protect its intellectual property; the Companys inability to manage growth; the effects of competition from a wide variety of local, regional, national and other providers of wireless solutions; changes in laws and regulations or changes in generally accepted accounting policies, rules and practices; changes in technology or products, which may be more difficult or costly, or less effective, than anticipated; the effects of outbreaks of pandemics or contagious diseases, including the length and severity of the recent global outbreak of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, and its impact on the Companys business; and other risks detailed from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including the Companys annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There may be other factors of which the Company is currently unaware or which it currently deems immaterial that may cause its actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on the Companys behalf apply only as of the date they are made and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, or otherwise. The Company makes available through its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports and other filings made by the Company with the SEC, as soon as practicable after the Company electronically files such reports and filings with the SEC. The Companys website address is www.powerfleet.com. The information contained in the Companys website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 24 Overview Powerfleet, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Powerfleet, the Company, we, our or us) is a global leader of Internet-of-Things (IoT) solutions providing valuable business intelligence for managing high-value enterprise assets that improve operational efficiencies. We are headquartered in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, with offices located around the globe. Our patented technologies address the needs of organizations to monitor and analyze their assets to improve safety, increase efficiency and productivity, reduce costs, and improve profitability. Our offerings are sold under the global brands Powerfleet, Pointer and Cellocator. We have an established history of IoT device development and innovation creating devices that can withstand harsh and rugged environments. With 54 patents and patent applications and 25 years experience, we believe we are well positioned to evolve our offerings for even greater value to customers through our cloud-based applications for unified operations. We deliver advanced data solutions that connect mobile assets to increase visibility, operational efficiency and profitability. Across our spectrum of vertical markets, we differentiate ourselves by developing mobility platforms that collect data from unique sensors. Further, because we are original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agnostic, we help organizations view and manage their mixed assets homogeneously. All of our solutions are paired with software as a service (SaaS) and analytics platforms to provide an even deeper level of insights and understanding of how assets are utilized and how drivers and operators operate those assets. These insights include a full set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to drive operational and strategic decisions. Our customers typically get a return on their investment in less than 12 months from deployment. Our enterprise software applications have machine learning capabilities and are built to integrate with our customers management systems to provide a single, integrated view of asset and operator activity across multiple locations while providing real-time enterprise-wide benchmarks and peer-industry comparisons. We look for analytics, as well as the data contained therein, to differentiate us from our competitors, adding significant value to customers business operations, and helping to contribute to their bottom line. Our solutions also feature open application programming interfaces (APIs) for additional integrations and development to boost other enterprise management systems and third-party applications. We market and sell our connected IoT data solutions to a wide range of customers in the commercial and government sectors. Our customers operate in diverse markets, such as manufacturing, automotive manufacturing, wholesale and retail, food and grocery distribution, pharmaceutical and medical distribution, construction, mining, utilities, aerospace, vehicle rental, as well as logistics, shipping, transportation, and field services. Traditionally, these businesses have relied on manual, often paper-based, processes or on-premise legacy software to operate their high-value assets, manage workforce resources, and distributed sites; and face environmental, safety, and other regulatory requirements. In todays landscape, it is crucial for these businesses to invest in solutions that enable easy analysis and sharing of real-time information. 25 Our Solutions We provide critical actionable information that powers unified operations throughout organizations. We are solving the challenge of inefficient data collection, real-time visibility, and analysis that leads to transformative business operations. Our SaaS cloud-based applications take data from our IoT devices and ecosystem of third-party and partner applications to present actionable information for customers to increase efficiencies, improve safety and security, and increase their profitability in easy-to-understand reports, dashboards, and real-time alerts. Key Applications of our IoT Solutions: The Company provides real-time intelligence for organizations with high-value assets allowing them to make informed decisions and ultimately improve their operations, safety, and bottom line. Our applications enable organizations to capture IoT data from various types of assets with devices and sensors creating a holistic view for analysis and action. The core applications our IoT solutions address include: End-to-end Visibility: Organizations with expensive assets such as vehicles, machinery, or equipment need to keep track of where the assets are located, monitor for misuse, and understand how and when assets are being used. By having complete visibility of their assets, customers can improve security, utilization and customer service. In addition, our visibility solutions help with personnel workflows and resource management, freight visibility through load status, equipment availability status, dwell and idle time, geofencing, two-way temperature control and management, multizone temperature monitoring, arrival and departure times, and supply chain allocation. Regulatory Compliance: Businesses must comply with government regulations and provide proof of compliance, which is commonly an onerous process to enforce and maintain. Our solutions provide critical data points and reports to help customers stay within compliance, avoid fines for non-compliance, and automate the reporting process. We deliver real-time position reports, hours-of-service, temperature monitoring and control, electronic safety checklists, workflow management, controlling vehicle access to only authorized operators, inspection reports, and history logs of use. Improve Safety: Our applications are designed to provide asset and operator management, monitoring, and visibility for safer environments. Our solutions allow our customers to monitor their fleet of vehicles on various parameters, including but not limited to, vehicle location, speed, engine fault codes, driver behavior, eco-driving, and ancillary sensors and can receive reports and alerts, either automatically or upon request wirelessly via the internet, email, mobile phone or an SMS. In addition, our dash camera provides critical video capture that can be used to help exonerate drivers when in accidents or help bolster training and coaching programs of employees. We also offers preventative solutions such as safety warning products to alert vehicle operators of objects or pedestrians in their pathway to prevent accidents, injuries, and damage. Our analytics platform features dashboards with KPIs and can help manager identify patterns, trends and outliers that can be used as flags for interventions. Drive Operational Efficiency & Productivity: To increase utilization of mobile assets, our solutions enable the identification of a change in status, real-time location, geo-fencing alerts when an asset is approaching or leaving its destination, cargo status, and on-board intelligence utilizing a motion sensor and proprietary logic that identifies the beginning of a drive and the end of a drive. Having this information enables customers to increase capacity, speed of service, right-size their fleets, and improve communication internally and with customers. In addition, customers can reduce revenue per mile, reduce claims and claims processing times, and reduce the number of assets needed. This is achieved through proving such things as two-way integrated workflows for drivers, control assignments and work change, Electronic Driver Logging (ELD) and automated record keeping for regulatory compliance, monitoring of asset pools and geofence violations, and various reporting insights that flag under-utilized assets, the closest assets, and alerts on dwell time and exceeding the allotted time for loading and unloading. We help customers to automate processes and increase productivity of their employees. Our applications enable customers to determine where operators are assigned and can temporarily reassign them based on peak needs, evaluate any disparity in the amount employees are paid compared to the time they actually spend operating a vehicle. Our applications help answer the question of why does it take some employees longer than others to do specific tasks, where to focus labor resources, and how to forecast vehicles and operators needed for future workflow. In addition, for our rental car vertical, our applications automatically upload vehicle identification number, mileage and fuel data as a vehicle enters and exits the rental lot, which can significantly expedite the rental and return processes for travelers, and provide the rental company with more timely inventory status, more accurate billing data that can generate higher fuel-related revenue, and an opportunity to utilize customer service personnel for more productive activities, such as inspecting vehicles for damage and helping customers with luggage. 26 Our solution for car sharing permits a rental car company to remotely control, track and monitor their rental vehicles wherever they are parked. Whether for traditional pod-based rental or for the emerging rent-anywhere model, the system, through APIs integrated into any rental companys fleet management system, (i) manages member reservations by smart phone or Internet, and (ii) charges members for vehicle use by the hour. For our customers with a variety of make-model-years in their fleet, we have developed an unmatched library of certified vehicle code interfaces through our second-generation On-Board Diagnostics (OBD-II), industry standard. Our patented fleet management system helps fleet owners improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Increase Security: Our solutions allow our customers to reduce theft and improve inventory management. Customers can lockdown their assets with automated e-mail or text message alerts, emergency tracking of assets (higher frequency of reports) if theft is expected, geo-fencing alerts when an asset enters a prohibited geography or location, and near real-time sensors that alert based on changes in temperature and shock, among other things. We also provide stolen vehicle retrieval (SVR) services. Most of the SVR products used to provide our SVR services are mainly sold to (i) local car dealers and importers that in turn sell the products equipped in the vehicle to the end users who purchase the SVR services directly from us, or (ii) leasing companies which purchase our SVR services in order to secure their own vehicles. Reduce Costs We enable our customers to improve asset utilization, reduce capital costs, and cut operating expenses, such as vehicle maintenance or service and support. Our solutions provide engine performance, machine diagnostics, fuel consumption, and battery life to improve preventative maintenance scheduling, increase uptime, and gain a longer service life of equipment. Through our software applications, customers can optimize capacity, analyze resource allocation, and improve utilization of assets to reduce capital expenses such as purchasing new or leasing additional equipment. Our applications provide root cause analysis for any cargo claims and helps with exoneration of drivers in accidents via dash camera visibility. Analytics and Machine Learning Our analytics platforms provide our customers with a holistic view of their asset activity across their enterprise. For example, our image machine learning system allows us to process images from our freight camera and other sources and identify key aspects of operations and geospatial information such as location, work being accomplished, type of cargo, how cargo is loaded and if there are any visible issues such as damage. Key Performance Indicators & Benchmarks Our cloud-based software applications provide a single, integrated view of asset activity across multiple locations, generating enterprise-wide benchmarks, peer-industry comparisons, and deeper insights into asset operations. In addition, our customers can set real-time alerts for exception-based reporting or critical activity that needs immediate attention. This enables management teams to make more informed, effective decisions, raise asset performance standards, increase productivity, reduce costs, and enhance safety. Specifically, our analytics platforms allow users to quantify best-practice enterprise benchmarks for asset utilization and safety, reveal variations and inefficiencies in asset activity across both sites and geographic regions, or identify opportunities to eliminate or reallocate assets, to reduce capital and operating costs. We provide an extensive set of decision-making tools and a variety of standard and customized reports to help businesses improve overall operations. We look for analytics and machine learning to make a growing contribution to drive platform and SaaS revenue, further differentiate our offerings and add value to our solutions. We also use our analytics platform for our own internal platform quality control. 27 Services Hosting Services . We provide the use of our systems as a remotely hosted service, with the system server and application software residing in our colocation center or on a cloud platform providers infrastructure (e.g., Azure, AWS). This approach helps us reduce support costs and improve quality control. It separates the system from the restrictions of the customers local IT networks, which helps reduce their system support efforts and makes it easier for them to receive the benefits of system enhancements and upgrades. Our hosting services are typically offered with extended maintenance and support services over a multi-year term of service, with automatic renewals following the end of the initial term. Software as a Service. We provide system monitoring, help desk technical support, escalation procedure development, routine diagnostic data analysis and software updates services as part of the ongoing contract term. These services ensure deployed systems remain in optimal performance condition throughout the contract term and provide access to newly developed features and functions on an annual basis. Maintenance Services . We provide a warranty on the hardware components of our system. During the warranty period, we either replace or repair defective hardware. We also make extended maintenance contracts available to customers and offer ongoing maintenance and support on a time and materials basis. Customer Support and Consulting Services for Ease of Use, Adoption, and Added Value . We have developed a framework for the various phases of system training and support that offer our customers both structure and flexibility. Major training phases include hardware installation and troubleshooting, software installation and troubleshooting, train-the-trainer training on asset hardware operation, preliminary software user training, system administrator training, information technology issue training, ad hoc training during system launch and advanced software user training. Increasingly, training services are provided through scalable online interactive training tools. Support and consulting services are priced based on the extent of training that the customer requests. To help our customers derive the most benefit from our system, we supply a broad range of documentation and support including videos, interactive online tools, hardware user guides, software manuals, vehicle installation overviews, troubleshooting guides, and issue escalation procedures. We provide our consulting services both as a stand-alone service to study the potential benefits of implementing an IoT business intelligence solution and as part of the system implementation itself. In some instances, customers prepay us for extended maintenance, support and consulting services. In those instances, the payment amount is recorded as deferred revenue and revenue is recognized over the service period. Recent Developments Rising interest rates, higher inflation, supply chain disruptions, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine have resulted in significant economic disruption and adversely impacted the broader global economy, including our customers and suppliers. Given the dynamic and uncertain nature of the current macroeconomic environment, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of such developments on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows into the foreseeable future. The ultimate extent of the effects of these developments remain highly uncertain, and such effects could exist for an extended period of time. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) was signed into law in August 2022. The IRA is federal legislation designed to raise revenue from lowering of prescription drug prices and imposition of certain corporate tax measures, while authorizing spending on energy and climate change initiatives, subsidizing the Affordable Care Act, and enacting of certain tax reforms. Management continues to monitor any potential impact of the IRA on our results. No immediate or direct effect from the legislation has had a material impact on our results at this time. The CHIPS and Science Act (CHIPS) was signed into law in August 2022. CHIPS is a federal statue providing funding for research and domestic production of semiconductors. Additional funding can be provided through CHIPS to various federal agencies as well as towards climate science research. No immediate or direct material effect from the legislation has had a material impact on our results at this time. Risks to Our Business We expect that many customers who utilize our solutions will do so as part of a large-scale deployment of these solutions across multiple or all divisions of their organizations. A customers decision to deploy our solutions throughout its organization will involve a significant commitment of its resources. Accordingly, initial implementations may precede any decision to deploy our solutions enterprise-wide. Throughout this sales cycle, we may spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about the benefits of our solutions, and there can be no assurance that our solutions will be deployed on a wider scale by the customer. 28 The timing of the deployment of our solutions may vary widely and will depend on the specific deployment plan of each customer, the complexity of the customers organization and the difficulty of such deployment. Customers with substantial or complex organizations may deploy our solutions in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of our limited operating history and the nature of our business, we cannot predict the timing or size of these sales and deployment cycles. Long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to place large orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. These variations could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to increase our revenues and generate net income will depend on a number of factors, including, for example, our ability to: increase sales of products and services to our existing customers; convert our initial programs into larger or enterprise-wide purchases by our customers; increase market acceptance and penetration of our products; and develop and commercialize new products and technologies. As of September 30, 2022, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $17.0 million and working capital of $36.6 million. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operating activities, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facility. To date, we have not generated sufficient cash flow solely from operating activities to fund our operations. We believe that our available working capital, anticipated level of future revenues, expected cash flows from operations and available borrowings under the revolving credit facility with Bank Hapoalim B.M. will provide sufficient funds to cover capital requirements through November 9, 2023. Additional risks and uncertainties to which we are subject are described under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies For the three-month period ended September 30, 2022, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. 29 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating information expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 2022 2021 2022 Revenue: Products 36.9 % 40.9 % 41.0 % 42.4 % Services 63.1 % 59.1 % 59.0 % 57.6 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Revenue: Cost of products 27.9 % 28.7 % 29.6 % 32.5 % Cost of services 23.3 % 21.2 % 21.6 % 20.7 % 51.2 % 49.9 % 51.2 % 53.2 % Gross profit 48.8 % 50.1 % 48.8 % 46.8 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 47.7 % 48.6 % 44.7 % 46.4 % Research and development expenses 9.4 % 5.1 % 9.0 % 6.8 % Total operating expenses 57.1 % 53.7 % 53.7 % 53.2 % Loss from operations (8.3 )% (3.6 )% (4.9 )% (6.4 )% Interest income 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Interest expense (2.6 )% (1.0 )% (1.5 )% 1.3 % Other income (expenses) net, 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss before income taxes (10.9 )% (4.5 )% (6.4 )% (5.1 )% Income tax benefit (expense) (0.6 )% (2.2 )% (0.8 )% (0.1 )% Net loss before non-controlling interest (11.5 )% (6.7 )% (7.2 )% (5.2 )% Non-controlling interest 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Net loss (11.5 )% (6.7 )% (7.2 )% (5.2 )% Accretion of preferred stock (0.5 )% (0.5 )% (0.5 )% (0.5 )% Preferred stock dividend (3.5 )% (3.1 )% (3.4 )% (3.1 )% Net loss attributable to common shareholders (15.5 )% (10.3 )% (11.1 )% (8.8 )% 30 Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 REVENUES. Revenues increased by approximately $5.0 million, or 17.2%, to $34.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $29.2 million in the same period in 2021. Revenues from products increased approximately $3.2 million, or 30%, to $14.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $10.8 million in the same period in 2021. The increase in product revenue is principally due to increased product sales in our Powerfleet for Logistics business and Powerfleet for Industrial business. Revenues from services increased approximately $1.8 million, or 9.8%, to $20.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $18.5 million in the same period in 2021. The increase in services revenue is principally due to an increase in our install base that generates service revenue and installation revenue. COST OF REVENUES. Cost of revenues increased by approximately $2.1 million, or 14.2%, to $17.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $14.9 million for the same period in 2021. Gross profit was $17.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $14.3 million in the same period in 2021. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit increased to 50.1% in 2022 from 48.8% in 2021. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was principally due to improved management of raw materials costs related to the global supply chain issues and electronic component shortages. Cost of products increased by approximately $1.6 million, or 20.4%, to $9.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $8.2 million in the same period in 2021. Gross profit for products was $4.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $2.6 million in the same period in 2021. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit increased to 29.8% in 2022 from 24.2% in 2021. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was principally due to product mix and improved management of raw materials costs related to the global supply chain issues and electronic component shortages. Cost of services increased by approximately $0.4 million, or 6.8%, to $7.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from $6.8 million in the same period in 2021. Gross profit for services was $12.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $11.6 million in the same period in 2021. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit increased to 64.1% in 2022 from 63.1% in 2021. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of services revenues was principally due to an increase in our install base that generates service revenue. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES . Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased by approximately $2.7 million, or 19.3%, to approximately $16.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $14.0 million in the same period in 2021, principally due to foreign currency losses, increased salaries and related expenses, and marketing expenses. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 48.6% in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from 47.7% in the same period in 2021, primarily due to the reasons described above. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES . Research and development (R&D) expenses decreased by approximately $1.0 million, or 36.6%, to approximately $1.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $2.7 million in the same period in 2021 principally due to the capitalization of software development expenses for new product development. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses decreased to 5.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2022, from 9.4% in the same period in 2021, primarily due to the reason described above. INTEREST EXPENSE. Interest expense decreased by approximately $446 thousand, or 57.4%, to approximately $(331) thousand in the three months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $(777) thousand in the same period in 2021, principally due to foreign currency translation gains from the Term Facilities. NET LOSS ATTIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS . Net loss was $3.5 million, or $(0.10) per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to net loss of $4.5 million, or $(0.13) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2021. The decrease in the net loss was due primarily to the reasons described above. 31 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 REVENUES . Revenues increased by approximately $10.3 million, or 11.2%, to $102.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $91.8 million in the same period in 2021. Revenues from products increased by approximately $5.6 million, or 14.8%, to $43.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $37.6 million in the same period in 2021. The increase in product revenue is due to increased product sales in our Powerfleet for Logistics business and Powerfleet for Industrial business. Revenues from services increased by approximately $4.7 million, or 8.7%, to $58.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $54.1 million in the same period in 2021. The increase in services revenue is principally due to an increase in our install base that generates service revenue. COST OF REVENUES . Cost of revenues increased by approximately $7.2 million, or 15.4%, to $54.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $47.0 million for the same period in 2021. Gross profit was $47.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $44.8 million for the same period in 2021. As a percentage of revenues, gross profit decreased to 46.9% in 2022 from 48.8% in 2021. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was principally due to higher raw materials costs related to the global supply chain issues. Cost of products increased by approximately $6.0 million, or 21.9%, to $33.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $27.2 million in the same period in 2021. Gross profit for products was $10.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $10.5 million in the same period in 2021. As a percentage of product revenues, gross profit decreased to 23.3% in 2022 from 27.8% in 2021. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was impacted by product mix, higher costs associated with supply chain issues, electronic component shortages and inflation. Cost of services increased by approximately $1.3 million, or 6.3%, to $21.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from $19.8 million in the same period in 2021. Gross profit for services was $37.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $34.3 million in the same period in 2021. As a percentage of service revenues, gross profit increased to 64.2% in 2022 from 63.4% in 2021. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of services revenues was principally due to an increase in our install base that generates service revenue. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES . SG&A expenses increased by approximately $6.4 million, or 15.6%, to approximately $47.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $41.0 million in the same period in 2021, principally due to increased salaries and related expenses, foreign currency losses, marketing and travel expenses, and professional fees. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 46.4% in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from 44.7% in the same period in 2021, primarily due to the reasons described above. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES . R&D expenses decreased by approximately $1.3 million, or 15.7%, to approximately $7.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $8.3 million in the same period in 2021, principally due to the capitalization of software development expenses for new product development. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses decreased to 6.8% in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, from 9.0% in the same period in 2021, primarily due to the reason described above. INTEREST EXPENSE. Interest expense decreased by approximately $2.7 million, or 187.3%, to approximately $(1.3) million in the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to $1.4 million in the same period in 2021, principally due to foreign currency translation gains from the Term Facilities. NET LOSS ATTIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS. Net loss was $9.0 million, or $(0.25) per basic and diluted share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to net loss of $10.2 million, or $(0.30) per basic and diluted share, for the same period in 2021. The decrease in the net loss was due primarily to the reasons described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our capital requirements have been funded primarily from the net proceeds from the issuance of our securities, including any issuances of our common stock upon the exercise of options. As of September 30, 2022, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $17.0 million and working capital of $36.6 million. On October 3, 2019, in connection with our acquisition of Pointer, we issued and sold 50,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Series A Preferred Stock), to ABRY Senior Equity V, L.P., ABRY Senior Equity Co-Investment Fund V, L.P and ABRY Investment Partnership, L.P. (the Investors), pursuant to the terms of an Investment and Transaction Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2019 (as such agreement has been amended from time to time, the Investment Agreement) for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million. The proceeds received from such sale were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. 32 In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Powerfleet Israel and Pointer (the Borrowers) are party to a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Bank Hapoalim B.M. (Hapoalim), pursuant to which Hapoalim agreed to provide Powerfleet Israel with two senior secured term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $30 million (comprised of two facilities in the aggregate principal amount of $20 million (the Term A Facility) and $10 million (the Term B Facility)) and a five-year revolving credit facility to Pointer in an aggregate principal amount of $10 million (the Revolving Facility). The outstanding amount under the term loan facilities was $21.3 million as of September 30, 2022. The proceeds of the term loan facilities were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in our acquisition of Pointer. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used by Pointer for general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2022, the Company borrowed $3.9 million under the revolving credit facility. On August 23, 2021, the Borrowers entered into an amendment (the Amendment), effective as of August 1, 2021, to the Credit Agreement with Hapoalim. The Amendment memorializes the agreements between the Borrowers and Hapoalim regarding a reduction in the interest rates of the Term A Facility and the Term B Facility. Pursuant to the Amendment, commencing as of November 12, 2020, the interest rate with respect to the Term A Facility was reduced to a fixed rate of 3.65% per annum and the interest rate with respect to the Term B Facility was reduced to a fixed rate of 4.5% per annum. The Amendment also provides, among other things, for (i) a reduction in the credit allocation fee on undrawn and uncancelled amounts of the Revolving Facility from 1% to 0.5% per annum, (ii) removal of the requirement that Powerfleet Israel maintain $3,000 on deposit in a separate reserve fund, and (iii) modifications to certain of the affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant regarding the ratio of the Borrowers debt levels to Pointers EBITDA. In June 2012, Pointer entered into a one-year $1,000 revolving credit facility with Discount Bank, which renews annually, subject to the banks approval. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used by Pointer for general corporate purposes. The Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility with Discount Bank as of September 30, 2022. On October 31, 2022, the Borrowers entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Third Amendment) with Hapoalim. The Third Amendment provides for, among other things, a new revolving credit facility to Pointer in the aggregate principal amount of $10 million (the New Revolver). The New Revolver will be available for a period of one month, commencing on October 31, 2022, and will continue to be available for successive one-month periods until and including October 30, 2023, unless the Borrowers deliver a notice to Hapoalim of their request not to renew the New Revolver. The New Revolver will initially bear interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 2.59%. Such interest is subject to monthly changes by Hapoalim, provided that Hapoalim gives Pointer advance notice regarding such change prior to the end of the applicable calendar month. The New Revolver will be secured by a first ranking fixed pledge and assignment by Pointer over its new bank account, which was opened in connection with the New Revolver, and all of the rights relating thereunder as well as a cross guarantee by Powerfleet Israel. Pointer is required to pay a credit allocation fee equal to 0.5% per annum on undrawn and uncancelled amounts of the New Revolver. We have on file a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that was declared effective by the SEC on November 27, 2019. Pursuant to the shelf registration statement, we may offer to the public from time to time, in one or more offerings, up to $60.0 million of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, and units, or any combination of the foregoing, at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of any such offering. The specific terms of any future offering will be determined at the time of the offering and described in a prospectus supplement that will be filed with the SEC in connection with such offering. On February 1, 2021, we closed an underwritten public offering (the Underwritten Public Offering) of 4,427,500 shares of common stock (which includes the full exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option) for gross proceeds of approximately $28.8 million, before deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses. The offer and sale of common stock in the Underwritten Public Offering were made pursuant to our shelf registration statement. As a result of rising interest rates, higher inflation, supply chain disruptions the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, there remains uncertainty surrounding the potential impact of such events on our results of operations and cash flows. We are proactively taking steps to increase available cash on hand including, but not limited to, targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses and capital expenditures and borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Capital Requirements As of September 30, 2022, we had cash (including restricted cash) and cash equivalents of $17.0 million and working capital of $36.6 million. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operating activities, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments from the sale of our capital stock and borrowings under our credit facility. To date, we have not generated sufficient cash flow solely from operating activities to fund our operations. We believe our available working capital, anticipated level of future revenues and expected cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to cover capital requirements through at least November 9, 2023. Our capital requirements depend on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the length of the sales cycle, the rate of increase or decrease in our existing business base, the success, timing, and amount of investment required to bring new products to market, revenue growth or decline and potential acquisitions. Failure to generate positive cash flow from operations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $1.2 million for the same period in 2021. The net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, reflects a net loss of $5.3 million and includes non-cash charges of $3.2 million for stock-based compensation, $6.2 million for depreciation and amortization expense and $2.1 million for right of use asset amortization. Changes in working capital items included: an increase in accounts receivable of $3.0 million; an increase in inventory of $5.5 million; an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.7 million; an increase in accounts payable of $1.7 million; and a decrease in lease liabilities of $2.0 million. 33 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $4.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $2.5 million for the same period in 2021. The cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was related to capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $19.7 million for the same period in 2021. The cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was primarily due to the repayment of long-term debt of $4.3 million, partially offset by net borrowings under the line of credit of $3.9 million. The change from the same period in 2021 was primarily due to the net proceeds from our stock offering of $26.9 million which was offset by the repayment of long-term debt of $4.0 million and the payment of preferred stock dividends of $3.1 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2022, there have been no material charges in contractual obligations as disclosed under the caption Contractual Obligations and Commitments in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Inflation Rising inflation and other macroeconomic trends in the U.S. have resulted in higher costs of raw materials, freight, and labor, which has impacted our operating costs. We expect the inflationary environment to continue for the remainder of the year, resulting in corresponding pressure on our operating costs and gross margins. In addition, we operate in several emerging market economies that are particularly vulnerable to the impact of inflationary pressures that could materially and adversely impact our operations in the foreseeable future. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements The Company is subject to recently issued accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. For a description of these new accounting standards, see Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference. 34