Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. References to we, us, our or the Company are to M I Acquisitions Inc., except where the context requires otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview We were formed on April 23, 2015 for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more target businesses. Our efforts to identify a prospective target business will not be limited to any particular industry or geographic region, although we intend to focus on target businesses operating in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. We intend to utilize cash derived from the proceeds of our public offering in effecting our initial business combination. We presently have no revenue, have had losses since inception from incurring formation costs and have had no operations other than the active solicitation of a target business with which to complete a business combination. We have relied upon the sale of our securities and loans from our officers and directors to fund our operations. On September 19, 2016, we consummated our initial public offering (the Offering) of 5,000,000 units (the Units). Each Unit consists of one share of common stock (Common Stock), and one warrant (Public Warrant) to purchase one share of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $50,000,000. We granted the underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to 750,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 402,500 units (the Private Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total proceeds of $4,025,000. The underwriters exercised the over-allotment option in part and, on October 14, 2016, the underwriters purchased 310,109 over-allotment option Units, which were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $3,101,090. On October 14, 2016, simultaneously with the sale of the Over-Allotment Units, we consummated the private sale of an additional 18,607 Private Units to one of the initial stockholders, generating gross proceeds of $186,070. The remainder of the over-allotment option expired unexercised. As of October 14, 2016, a total of $54,694,127 of the net proceeds from the Offering and the Private Placement were in a trust account established for the benefit of the Companys public shareholders. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally towards consummating a business combination. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to September 19, 2016 was in preparation for the Offering. Since the Offering, our activity has been limited to the evaluation of business combination candidates, and we will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate small amounts of non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. Interest income is not expected to be significant in view of current low interest rates on risk-free investments (treasury securities). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. We expect our expenses to increase substantially after this period. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, we had a net loss of $36,382 and $43,646, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2016, we incurred $61,360 of general and administrative expenses and $5,667 of administrative fees paid to a related party. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we incurred $68,624 of general and administrative expenses and $5,667 of administrative fees paid to a related party. These expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 were offset by $27,500 for the extinguishment of debt recorded by the Company on the amendment of a note payable and $3,145 of interest income. For the period from April 23, 2016 (Inception) to September 30, 2015, we had a net loss of $1,043 which was comprised of formation and operating costs. 12 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2016, we had cash outside our trust account of $509,051. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied to date through receipt of $25,000 from the sale of the insider shares and loans and advances from insiders and a related party and an unrelated party in an aggregate amount of $241,921 that are more fully described below. We intend to use substantially all of the net proceeds of the Offering, including the funds held in the trust account, in connection with our initial business combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto, including a deferred underwriting commission payable to Chardan Capital Markets, LLC in an amount equal to 2.0% of the total gross proceeds raised in the offering upon consummation of our initial business combination. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to effect our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial business combination if the funds available to us outside of the trust account were insufficient to cover such expenses. We anticipate that the approximately $509,051 outside of our trust account will be sufficient to allow us to operate until June 13, 2018, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. We believe that the net proceeds from the offering not held in the trust account and the interest earned on the trust account balance (net of income, and other tax obligations) that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements, which we anticipate will be approximately $525,000, will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 21 months, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for identifying and evaluating prospective business combination candidates, performing business due diligence on prospective target businesses, traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses, reviewing corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, selecting the target business to consummate our initial business combination with and structuring, negotiating and consummating the business combination. We anticipate that we will incur approximately: $150,000 of expenses for the search for target businesses and for the legal, accounting and other third-party expenses attendant to the due diligence investigations, structuring and negotiating of our initial business combination; $10,000 of expenses for the due diligence and investigation of a target business by our officers, directors and insiders; $40,000 of expenses in legal and accounting fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; $210,000 for the payment of the administrative fee to Magna Management LLC (of $10,000 per month for up to 21 months), subject to deferral as described herein; $115,000 for general working capital that will be used for miscellaneous expenses, liquidation obligations and reserves, including director and officer liability insurance premiums. If our estimates of the costs of undertaking due diligence and negotiating our initial business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, or the amount of interest available to us from the trust account is less than we expect as a result of the current interest rate environment, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial business combination or because we become obligated to convert a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only consummate such financing simultaneously with the consummation of our initial business combination. Following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 13