Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. References to we, us, our or the Company are to M I Acquisitions Inc., except where the context requires otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview We were formed on April 23, 2015 for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more target businesses. Our efforts to identify a prospective target business will not be limited to any particular industry or geographic region, although we intend to focus on target businesses operating in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. We intend to utilize cash derived from the proceeds of our public offering in effecting our initial business combination. We presently have no revenue, have had losses since inception from incurring formation costs and have had no operations other than the active solicitation of a target business with which to complete a business combination. We have relied upon the sale of our securities and loans from our officers and directors to fund our operations. On September 19, 2016, we consummated our initial public offering (the Offering) of 5,000,000 units (the Units). Each Unit consists of one share of common stock (Common Stock), and one warrant (Public Warrant) to purchase one share of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $50,000,000. We granted the underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to 750,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 402,500 units (the Private Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total proceeds of $4,025,000. The underwriters exercised the over-allotment option in part and, on October 14, 2016, the underwriters purchased 310,109 over-allotment option Units, which were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $3,101,090. On October 14, 2016, simultaneously with the sale of the Over-Allotment Units, we consummated the private sale of an additional 18,607 Private Units to one of the initial stockholders, generating gross proceeds of $186,070. The remainder of the over-allotment option expired unexercised. As of November 13, 2017, a total of $54,990,849 was held in the trust account established for the benefit of the Companys public shareholders, which includes approximately $296,726 in interest income available from the Companys investments in the Trust Account to pay its income tax obligations. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally towards consummating a business combination. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to September 19, 2016 was in preparation for the Offering. Since the Offering, our activity has been limited to the evaluation of business combination candidates, and we will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate small amounts of non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. Interest income is not expected to be significant in view of current low interest rates on risk-free investments (treasury securities). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Our expenses have increased substantially since closing the Offering. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we had a net income and net loss of $152,350 and $(111,519), respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we incurred $367,033 and $714,534, respectively, of general and administrative expenses and $30,000 and $90,000, respectively, of administrative fees paid to a related party. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, these expenses were offset by other income totaling $549,383 and $693,015. respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, other income was comprised of interest income of $121,682 and settlement income of $427,701, which we received from an entity that decided that it no longer wished to engage in a transaction with us. The settlement income received was approximately the amount of the expenses we incurred pursuing that transaction. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, other income was comprised of interest income of $265,314 and settlement income of $427,701. 12 For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, we had a net loss of $36,382 and $43,646, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, we incurred $61,360 and $68,624, respectively, of general and administrative expenses and $5,667 and $5,667, respectively, of administrative fees paid to a related party. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, other income was comprised of interest income of $30,645. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2017, we had cash outside our trust account of $479,382. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied to date through the Offering, the receipt of $25,000 from the sale of the insider shares and loans from insiders and a related party and an unrelated party in an aggregate amount of $186,720. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we withdrew interest income totaling $71,702 to be utilized for payment of tax obligations. In addition, we received $427,701 from a company with which we were negotiating a business combination after it decided that it no longer wished to engage in a transaction with us. The amount received was approximately the amount of the expenses we incurred in pursuing that transaction. We intend to use substantially all of the net proceeds of the Offering, including the funds held in the trust account, in connection with our initial business combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto, including a deferred underwriting commission payable to Chardan Capital Markets, LLC in an amount equal to 2.0% of the total gross proceeds raised in the offering upon consummation of our initial business combination. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to effect our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial business combination if the funds available to us outside of the trust account were insufficient to cover such expenses. We anticipate that the amounts outside of our trust account will be insufficient to allow us to operate until March 19, 2018 (if an extension is not completed). We expect to have to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our shareholders, officers, directors, or third parties to allow us to operate until March 19, 2018 (if an extension is not completed). None of the shareholders, officers or directors are under any obligation to advance funds to, or to invest in, our company. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of our business plan, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These matters, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial business combination or because we become obligated to convert a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only consummate such financing simultaneously with the consummation of our initial business combination. Following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.