Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Overview The B2C payment processing industry provides merchants with credit, debit, gift and loyalty card and other payment processing services, along with related value-added solutions and information services. The industry continues to grow, driven by wider merchant acceptance, increased consumer use of electronic payments and advances in payment technology. The proliferation of bankcards and use of other payment technologies has made the acceptance of electronic payments through multiple channels a virtual necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, to remain competitive. This increased use and acceptance of bankcards and the availability of more sophisticated products and services has resulted in a highly competitive and specialized industry. Services to the SMB merchant market have been historically characterized by basic payment processing without ready access to more sophisticated technology, value-added solutions, or customer service that are typically offered to large merchants. To keep up with the changing demands of how consumers wish to pay for goods and services, we believe that SMB merchants increasingly recognize the need for value-added services wrapped around omni-channel payment solutions that are tailored to their specific business needs. Key Industry Trends The following are key trends we believe are impacting the merchant acquiring / payment processing industry: Trend Toward Electronic Transactions . We believe the continued shift from cash/paper payments toward electronic / card payments will drive growth for merchant acquirers and processors as volume continues to grow correspondingly. We believe the continued migration from cash to card and overall market growth will continue to provide tailwinds to the electronic payments industry. Increasing Demand for Integrated Payments. Merchant acquirers are increasingly differentiating themselves from competitors via innovative technology, including integrated POS solutions ("integrated payments"). Integrated payments refer to the integration of payment processing with various software solutions and applications that are sold by VARs and ISVs. Integrated software tools help merchants manage their businesses, streamline processes, lower costs, increase accuracy, and drive growth for businesses. The broader solutions delivered as part of an integrated payments platform have become an increasingly important consideration point for many SMBs, whereas pricing was historically the key factor influencing the selection of a merchant acquirer. Merchant acquirers that partner with VARs and ISVs to integrate payments with software or own the software outright may benefit most from new revenue streams and higher merchant retention. Mobile Payments. Historically, e-commerce was conducted on a computer via a web browser; however, as mobile technologies continue to proliferate, consumers are making more purchases through mobile browsers and native mobile applications. We believe this shift represents a significant opportunity given the high growth rates of mobile payments volume, higher fees for card-not-present and cross-border processing and potential for the in-app economy to stimulate and/or alter consumer spending behavior. Migration to EMV. EMV, which stands for Europay, MasterCard and Visa, is the global payments standard that utilizes chip technology on cards designed to increase security. EMV technology employs dynamic authentication for each transaction, rendering any data copied from magnetic strip readers to produce counterfeit cards unusable. Demand for EMV ready terminals should remain resilient in the near term due to the following: The United States was one of the last countries to adopt EMV technology, leaving a large group of merchants still transitioning to the EMV standards; and 5 U.S. merchants are penalized for failing to comply with EMV standards by bearing the chargeback risk when presented with an EMV enabled card when the terminal is non-compliant. The large majority of our third-party products are EMV enabled, and we expect that most new hardware sales will be EMV enabled devices, although all hardware sales constitute only a small portion of our total revenue. B2B payments is the largest payment market in the United States by volume and presents a significant opportunity for payment providers to capitalize on the conversion of check and paper-based payments to electronic payments, including card-based acceptance. As businesses have increasingly looked to improve efficiency and reduce costs, the electronification of B2B payments has gained momentum. Electronics Payments Overview The payment processing and services industry provides the infrastructure and services necessary to enable the acceptance, processing, clearing and settlement of electronic payments predominantly consisting of credit card, debit card, ACH payments, gift cards and loyalty rewards programs. Characterized by recurring revenues, high operating leverage, and robust cash flow generation, the industry continues to benefit from the mass migration from cash and checks to electronic payments. There are five key participants in the payment processing value chain: (i) card issuing banks, (ii) merchant acquirers, (iii) payment networks, (iv) merchant processors and (v) sponsor banks. Each of these participants performs key functions in the electronic payments process, while other entities, such as terminal manufacturers, gateway providers and independent sales organizations also play important functions within the value chain. Card Issuing Banks Typically financial institutions that issue credit/debit cards to consumers (also underwrite the risk associated the cards), authorize (check for fraud and sufficient funds) transactions and transfer funds through the payment networks for settlement. Some card issuers do not have the ability to process transactions in-house, in which case the issuer may engage a card processor. Merchant Acquirers Firms that sign up merchants to their platform through a variety of sales channels, enabling them to accept, process and settle electronic payments. Additionally, merchant acquirers provide other value-added services to help merchants run their businesses more efficiently, such as helping to select POS hardware and providing customer support and services. Payment Networks Card brand companies, such as MasterCard or Visa, that set rules and provide the rails to route transactions and information between card issuers, merchant acquirers and payments processors in real-time over vast communication networks. Merchant Processors Firms that provide the technology needed to allow for payment authorization, data transmission, data security and settlement functions. Oftentimes the term merchant acquirer and processor are used synonymously; however, they perform two distinct functions (sometimes provided by the same entity). Sponsor Banks Financial Institutions that are acquiring members of Visa and MasterCard and provide sponsorship access to acquirers and processors to the card networks. Sponsor banks provide merchants the ultimate access to the card networks for their processing activity. The industry also includes other third-party providers, including service, software and hardware companies that provide products and services designed to improve the experience for issuers, merchants and merchant acquirers. This category includes mobile payment enablers, terminal manufacturers, and ISV's. Each electronic payment transaction consists of two key steps: the front-end authorization and back end settlement. Front End Authorization The original request for payment authorization that occurs when the card is swiped or inserted at the POS or the data is entered into an online gateway. 6 Back End Settlement The settlement and clearing process consists of settling outstanding payables and receivables between the card issuing bank & merchant bank. This process is facilitated by a back-end processor that utilizes the network's platform to send outstanding payable information and funds between the two parties. A credit or debit card transaction carried out offline or through signature debit is a two-message process, with the front end occurring at the POS and the back end occurring later as a part of a batch processing system that clears all of the day's payments from transaction occurring throughout the day. Credit and debit card transactions carried out with personal identification numbers consist of a single message, whereby the authorization and clearing occur immediately the money is instantly debited from the cardholder's checking account, although the settlement of funds (the transfer to the merchant's account) may happen later as part of a batch process. Competitive Strengths We possess certain attributes that we believe differentiate us as a leading provider of merchant acquiring and commercial payment solutions in the United States. Our key competitive strengths include: Purpose-Built Proprietary Technology We have strategically built our proprietary software to provide technology-enabled payment acceptance and business management solutions to merchants, enterprises and resellers. The MX product line is embedded into the critical day-to-day workflows and operations of both merchants and resellers, leading to highly "sticky" relationships and high retention. CPX provides a complete commercial solution suite that monetizes commercial payments and maximizes automation for buyers and suppliers. By integrating with Vortex.Cloud and Vortex.OS, MX and CPX can scale in a cost-effective and efficient manner, while enhancing features and functionality. Both product lines also support low friction merchant onboarding and an integrated value-added product offering for merchants, resellers and ISVs in the consumer and commercial payment space. Furthermore, in addition to supporting a modern user experience, Vortex.Cloud enables the rapid inclusion of data and systems of acquisition targets for smooth consolidation to our operating infrastructure and accelerates achievement of revenue and of cost synergies. Diverse Reseller Community 7 We maintain strong reseller relationships with approximately 1,300 ISOs, FIs, ISVs, VARs and other referral partners. MX Connect enables resellers to efficiently market merchant acquiring solutions to a broad base of merchants through this one-to-many distribution model. Resellers leverage MX Connect's powerful CRM and business operating features to manage their internal sales teams and engage their merchant base through various value-added tools and resources, such as marketing resources, automated onboarding, merchant underwriting, merchant activity monitoring and reporting, to support the growth of their businesses. We believe that our ability to service our reseller partners through a comprehensive offering provides a competitive advantage that has allowed the company to build a large, diverse merchant base characterized by high retention. The strength of our technology offering is manifest in the fact that we maintain ownership of merchant contracts, with most reseller contracts including strong non-solicit and portability restrictions. Comprehensive Suite of Payment Solutions MX Merchant offers a comprehensive and differentiated suite of traditional and emerging payment products and services that enables SMBs to address their payment needs through one provider. We provide a payment processing platform that allows merchants to accept electronic payments (e.g. credit cards, debit cards, and ACH) at the point of sale ("POS"), online, and via mobile payment technologies. In addition, through MX Merchant, we deliver innovative business management products and add-on features that meet the needs of SMBs across different vertical markets. Through our MX Merchant platform, we believe we are well-positioned to capitalize on the trend towards integrated payments solutions, new technology adoption and value-add service utilization that is underway in the SMB market. We believe our solutions facilitate a superior merchant experience that results in increased customer lifetime value. Highly Scalable Business Model with Operating Leverage As a result of thoughtful investments in our technology, we have developed robust and differentiated infrastructure that has enabled us to scale in a cost-efficient manner. Our purpose-built proprietary technology platforms, MX and CPX, each serve a unique purpose within consumer and commercial payments, enabling the company to realize significant operating leverage within each business segment. Furthermore, the agility of our Vortex.Cloud and Vortex.OS enterprise infrastructure enables us to quickly and cost efficiently consolidate acquisitions to drive revenue and cost synergies. Our operating efficiency supports a low capital expenditure environment to develop product enhancements that drive organic growth across our consumer and commercial payment ecosystems and attract both reselling partners and enterprise clients looking for best-in-class solutions. By creating a cost-efficient environment that facilitates the combination of ongoing product innovation to drive organic growth and stable cash flow to fund acquisitions, we anticipate ongoing economies of scale and increased margins over time. Experienced Management Team Led by Industry Veterans Our executive management team has a record of execution in the merchant acquiring and technology-enabled payments industry. Our team has continued to develop and enhance our proprietary and innovative technology platforms that differentiate us with merchants and resellers in the industry. Since founding the Company, our leadership team has built strong, long-term relationships with reseller and enterprise partners by leveraging the MX and CPX product platforms to meet the needs of businesses in specific vertical markets. We invest to attract and retain executive leadership that align with the opportunities in the market and our strategic focus. Growth Strategies We intend to continue to execute a multi-pronged growth strategy, with diverse organic initiatives supplemented by acquisitions. Growth strategies include: Organic Growth in our Consumer Reseller and Merchant Base We expect to grow through our existing reseller network and merchant base, capitalizing on the inherent growth of existing merchant volume and reseller merchant portfolios. By providing resellers with agile tools to manage their sales businesses and grow their merchant portfolio, we have established a solid base from which to generate new merchant adoption and retain 8 existing merchants. By engaging in a consultative partnership approach, we maintain strong relationships with our reseller partners and continues to exhibit strong merchant adoption and volume growth trends. Through our resellers, we provide merchants with full-service acquiring solutions, as well as value-added services and tools to streamline their business processes and enables them to focus on driving same store sales growth. Expand our Network of Distribution Partners We have established and maintain a strong position within the reseller community, with approximately 1,300 partners. We intend to continue to expand our distribution network to reach new partners, particularly with ISVs and VARs to expand technology and integrated partnerships. We believe that our MX Connect technology offering enables us to attract, and retain, high quality resellers focused on growth. Increase Margin per Merchant with Complementary Products and Services We intend to drive the adoption of our value-added services and tools with our merchant base. MX Merchant allows merchants to add proprietary Priority applications as well as other third-party applications from the MX Merchant Marketplace to build customized payment solutions that are tailored to a merchant's business needs. As we continue to board new merchants and promote our MX Merchant solution, we can cross-sell these add-on applications. By increasing attachment rates, along with continued benefit from economies of scale, we expect to see improved margins per merchant. Merchants utilizing MX Merchant exhibit somewhat higher retention, contributing to our improving overall retention rates. We believe we are well-positioned to capitalize on the secular trend towards integrated payments solutions, new technology adoption and value-add service utilization in the SMB market. Deploy Industry Specific Payment Technology We intend to continue to enhance and deploy our technology-enabled payment solutions in attractive industries. Through MX Merchant, we have developed proprietary applications and added third-party tools that address the specific needs of merchants in certain verticals, including retail, health care and hospitality. We continue to identify and evaluate new and attractive industries where we can deliver differentiated technology-enabled payment solutions that meet merchants' industry-specific needs. Expand Electronic Payments Share of B2B Transactions with CPX We have a growing presence in the commercial payments market where we provide curated managed services and AP automation solutions to industry leading financial institutions and card networks such as Citibank, MasterCard, Visa and American Express. The Commercial payments market is the largest and one of the fastest growing payments market in the United States by volume. We are well positioned to capitalize on the secular shift from check to electronic payments, which currently lags the consumer payments markets, by eliminating the friction between buyers and suppliers through our industry leading offering, and driving strong growth and profitability. Accretive Acquisitions We intend to selectively pursue strategic and tactical acquisitions that meet certain criteria, with a consistent long-term goal of maximizing stockholder value. We actively seek potential acquisition candidates that exhibit certain attractive attributes including, predictable and recurring revenue, scalable operating model, low capital intensity complementary technology offerings and strong cultural fit. Our Vortex.Cloud operating infrastructure is purpose-built to rapidly and seamlessly consolidate complementary businesses into our ecosystem, optimizing revenue and cost synergies. Sales and Distribution We reach our consumer payment merchants through three primary sales channels: 1) Retail ISOs/Agents and Financial Institutions, 2) Wholesale ISOs, and 3) Independent Software Vendors and Value-Added Resellers. MX Connect allows resellers to engage merchants for processing services and a host of value-added features designed to enhance their customer 9 relationship. Merchants utilize our diverse product suite to manage their business, increasing our ability to retain the merchant if the ISO were to leave the Company. Retail ISOs/Agents and Financial Institutions (i.e. community banks) A non-risk bearing independent group of sales agents, individual sales agents, or financial institutions (mostly community banks) that operates as a sales force on behalf of the Company. Retail resellers are not employed by us but rather are independently contracted to acquire merchants to utilize our payment processing and product offerings. While the reseller serves as the merchant's key contact, the processing contract is between us and the merchant and agreements with resellers include non-solicitation rights. We manage the transaction risk on behalf of retail resellers. Wholesale ISO A risk bearing independent group of sales agents operating as a sales force on behalf of the Company. Wholesale ISOs are not employed by us but rather are independently contracted to acquire merchants to utilize our payment processing and product offerings. While the ISO serves as the merchant's key contact, the processing contract is between us and the merchant, and agreements with ISOs include non-solicitation rights. Wholesale ISOs are responsible and bear all transaction risk on their merchant portfolios. We underwrite all such merchants even though wholesale ISOs bear the risk. ISVs and VARs - ISVs develop and sell business management software solutions while VARs sell third-party software solutions to merchants as part of a bundled package that includes the computer systems which operates the software. We partner with ISVs and VARs that can integrate our capabilities into a variety of software applications (e.g. medical billing software). These integrated payment solutions create an extremely "sticky" customer relationship. Priority Commercial Payments obtains its "buyer" clients through direct sales initiative and referral and business partnerships with integrated software partners, the card networks (MasterCard, Visa, American Express) and large US banking institutions. We support a direct vendor sales model that provides turnkey merchant development, product sales, and supplier enablement programs. By establishing a seamless bridge for buyer-to-supplier (payor-to-provider) payments that is integrated directly to a buyer's payment instruction file to facilitate payments to vendors via all payment types (virtual card, purchase card, ACH +, dynamic discounting), we have established ourselves as an emerging force in commercial payments. Our market strategy has resulted in a merchant base that we believe is diversified across both industries and geographies resulting in, what we believe, is more stable average profitability per merchant. Only one single reseller relationship contributes more than 10% of total bankcard processing volume, and that one relationship represents approximately 17.1% of our total bankcard processing volume. Security, Disaster Recovery and Back-up Systems As a result of normal business operations, we store information relating to our merchants and their transactions. Because this information is considered sensitive in nature, we maintain a high level of security to attempt to protect it. Our computational systems are continually updated and audited to the latest security standards as defined by payment card industry and data security standards ("PCI DSS"), FSOC, and HIPAA audits. As such, we have a dedicated team responsible for security incident response. This team develops, maintains, tests and verifies our incident response plan. The primary function of this team is to react and respond to intrusions, denial of service, data leakage, malware, vandalism, and many other events that could potentially jeopardize data availability, integrity, and confidentiality. This team is responsible for investigating and reporting on all malicious activity in and around our information systems. In addition to handling security incidents, the incident response team continually educates themselves and us on information security matters. High-availability and disaster recovery are provided through a combination of redundant hardware and software running at two geographically distinct data centers. Each data center deployment is an exact mirror of the other and each can handle all technical, payment, and business operations for all product lines independently of the other. If one site or service becomes impaired, the traffic is redirected to the other automatically. Business Continuity Planning drills are run each quarter to test fail-over and recovery as well as staff operations and readiness. Third-Party Processors and Sponsor Banks 10 We partner with various vendors in the payments value chain to assist us in providing payment processing services to merchant clients, most notably processors and sponsor banks, which sit between us (the merchant acquirer) and the card networks. Processing is a scale driven business in which many acquirers outsource the processing function to a small number of large processors. In these partnerships, we serve as a merchant acquirer and enter into processing agreements with payment processors, such as First Data or TSYS, to assist us in providing front-end and back-end transaction processing services for our merchants. These third parties are compensated for their services. These processors in turn have agreements with card networks such as Visa and MasterCard, through which the transaction information is routed in exchange for network fees. To provide processing services, acquirers like Priority we must be registered with the card networks (e.g. Visa and MasterCard). To register with a card network in the United States, acquirers must maintain relationships with banks willing to sponsor the acquirer's adherence to the rules and standards of the card networks, or a sponsor bank. We maintain sponsor bank relationships with Wells Fargo, Synovus Bank, Pueblo Bank, Sutton Bank, and Axiom Bank. For ACH payments, the Company's ACH network (ACH.com) is sponsored by Atlantic Capital Bank and Fifth Third Bank. Sponsor bank relationships enable us to route transactions under the sponsor bank's control and identification number (referred to as a BIN for Visa and ICA for MasterCard) across the card networks (or ACH network) to authorize and clear transactions. Risk Management Our thoughtful merchant and reseller underwriting policies combined with our forward-looking transaction management capabilities have enabled us to maintain low credit loss performance. Our risk management strategies are informed by a team with decades of experience managing merchant acquiring risk operations that are augmented by our modern systems designed to manage risk at the transaction level. Initial Underwriting - Central to our risk management process is our front-line underwriting policies that vet all resellers and merchants prior to their contracting with us. Our automated risk systems pull credit bureau reports, corporate ownership details, as well as anti-money laundering, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN") information from a variety of integrated data bases. This information is put into the hands of a tenured team of underwriters who conduct any necessary industry checks, financial performance analysis or owner background checks, consistent with our policies. Based upon these results the underwriting department rejects or approves and sets appropriate merchant and reseller reserve requirements which are held by our bank sponsors on our behalf. Resellers are subject to quarterly and/or annual assessments for financial strength compliance with our policies and adjustments to reserve levels. The results of our initial merchant underwriting inform the transaction level risk limits for volume, average ticket, transaction types and authorization codes among other items that are captured by our CYRIS risk modulea proprietary risk system that monitors and reports transaction risk activity to our risk team. This transaction level risk module, housed within MX Connect, forms the foundational risk management framework that enables the company to optimize transaction activity and processing scale while preserving a modest aggregate risk profile that has resulted in historically low losses. Real-Time Risk Monitoring - Merchant transactions are monitored on a transactional basis to proactively enforce risk controls. Our risk systems provide automated evaluation of merchant transaction activity against initial underwriting settings. Transactions that are outside underwriting parameters are queued for further investigation. Also, resellers whose merchant portfolio represents a concentration of investigated merchants are evaluated for risk action (i.e., increased reserves or contract termination). Risk Audit - Transactions flagged by our risk monitoring systems or that demonstrate suspicious activity traits that have been flagged for review can result in funds being held and other risk mitigation actions. These can include non- authorization of the transaction, debit of reserves or even termination of processing agreement. Merchants are periodically reviewed to assess any risk adjustments based upon their overall financial health and compliance with Network standards. Merchant transaction activity is investigated for instances of business activity changes or credit impairment (and improvement). Loss Mitigation - In instances where particular transactions and/or individual merchants are flagged for fraud, where transaction activity is resulting in excessive chargebacks, several loss mitigation actions may be taken. These include charge-back dispute 11 resolution, merchant and reseller funds (reserves or processed batches) withheld, inclusion on Network Match List to notify the industry of a "bad actor", and even legal action. Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses Merger with Finxera Holdings, Inc. On March 5, 2021, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Finxera Holdings, Inc. (Finxera), Prime Warrior Acquisition Corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub) and, solely in its capacity as the representative of the stockholders or optionholders of Finxera (the Equityholder Representative), Stone Point Capital LLC. Priority will acquire, through a merger of Merger Sub with and into Finxera, the Finxera business. Finxera is a provider of deposit account management payment processing services to the debt settlement industry in the United States. The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, (a) Merger Sub will merge with and into Finxera (the Merger), with the separate existence of Merger Sub ceasing and Finxera continuing as the surviving entity of the Merger (the Surviving Entity); (b) at the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time) each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Entity; and (c) the shares of common stock of Finxera designated as Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and preferred stock Series C Participating Preferred Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing) will be converted into rights to receive certain cash and stock consideration and a contingent right to receive a portion of any payments made following the determination of the purchase price adjustments (a Deferred Payment). Consideration for the Merger will consist of a combination of cash and stock, with the purchase price comprising of: (a) $425,000,000, plus (b) the aggregate value of the current assets of the Finxera and each of its subsidiaries (the Group Companies) less the aggregate value of the current liabilities of the Group Companies, in each case, determined on a consolidated basis without duplication, as of the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the date of the Closing (which may be a positive or negative number), plus (c) the sum of all cash and cash equivalents of the Group Companies as of the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the date of the Closing, minus (d) the amount of indebtedness of the Group Companies as of the close of the business day immediately prior to the date of the Closing, minus (e) the amount of unpaid transaction expenses, minus (f) 25% of the earnings of the Group Companies during the period between the signing of the Merger Agreement and the Closing. Each option to purchase one or more shares of Class B Common Stock of Finxera issued pursuant to the Finxera Holdings, Inc. 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the Company Options), vested as of immediately prior to the Closing (the Vested Company Option), that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Closing will be deemed to be exercised and converted into the right to receive a cash payment with respect to such Vested Company Option and a contingent right to receive a portion of any Deferred Payments. Support Agreement In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, Thomas C. Priore, the Thomas Priore 2019 GRAT, the Thomas C. Priore Irrevocable Insurance Trust U/A/D 1/8/2010 (the Stockholders) and Finxera have entered into that certain Support Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2021 (the Support Agreement), pursuant to which each of the Stockholder (a) agrees to execute and deliver the Stockholders Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement on the date of the Closing and (b) after the date of the Support Agreement and prior to the date of the Closing, shall not sell, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of such Stockholders Company Common Shares, unless as a condition to such sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition, each such transferee executes and delivers a joinder agreement to the Support Agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to Finxera, provided, that such Stockholder shall be permitted to sell up to an aggregate of 5% of such Stockholders Company Common Shares upon written notice to Finxera. Debt Commitment Letter 12 On March 5, 2021, Priority Holdings, LLC (Holdings) entered into that certain debt commitment letter (the Debt Commitment Letter) with Truist Bank and Truist Securities, Inc. (collectively, the Debt Commitment Parties), pursuant to which, among other things, the Debt Commitment Parties have committed to provide Holdings with (a) $300,000,000 of term loan commitments (the Initial Term Loan Facility); (b) $290,000,000 of delayed draw term loan commitments (the Delayed Draw Term Loan Facility); and (c) a $40,000,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility and together with the Initial Term Loan Facility and the Delayed Draw Term Loan Facility, collectively, the Debt Financing), in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Debt Commitment Letter. The proceeds of the Initial Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility will be used, among other things, to refinance certain of Holdings existing indebtedness, to pay fees and expenses in connection with such refinancing and for working capital and general corporate requirements. The proceeds of the Delayed Draw Term Loan Facility will be used to finance a portion of the cash consideration in connection with the Merger and to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith. Equity Commitment Letter On March 5, 2021, the Company entered into that certain preferred stock commitment letter (the Equity Commitment Letter) with Ares Capital Management LLC (ACM) and Ares Alternative Credit Management LLC (AACM and together with ACM, the Equity Commitment Parties), pursuant to which, among other things, the Equity Commitment Parties have agreed to purchase perpetual senior preferred equity securities (the Preferred Stock) of the Company (a) to be issued in connection with the refinancing and repayment in full of certain Credit and Guaranty Agreements as described in the Equity Commitment Letter (the Closing Date Refinancing) (the Initial Preferred Stock and the issuance and sale thereof and certain warrants representing 2.50% of the fully diluted Company Common Shares at the Closing, the Initial Preferred Stock Financing) in an amount equal to (i) in the case of ACM, $90.0 million and (ii) in the case of AACM, $60.0 million, (b) to be issued in connection with the Merger (the Acquisition Preferred Stock and the issuance and sale thereof, the Acquisition Preferred Stock Financing) in an amount equal to (i) in the case of ACM, $30.0 million and (ii) in the case of AACM, $20.0 million and (c) available to be issued in connection with one or more acquisitions by the Company or its subsidiaries as permitted by the Equity Commitment Letter (the Delayed Preferred Stock and the issuance and sale thereof, the Delayed Preferred Stock Financing and together with the Initial Preferred Stock Financing and the Acquisition Preferred Stock Financing, the Preferred Stock Financing) an amount equal to (i) in the case of ACM, $30.0 million and (ii) in the case of AACM, $20.0 million. The Company has also agreed to issue to the Equity Commitment Parties warrants to purchase shares of common stock of the Company equal to an aggregate of 2.5% of the outstanding shares of common stock at a nominal exercise price. The Preferred Stock will require quarterly dividend payments initially equal to a LIBOR rate plus 12% per annum of the liquidation preference, of which at least LIBOR plus 5% is to be payable in cash and the remainder paid in kind. In certain circumstances, including if the Company does not pay the minimum cash dividend, the required dividend may be increased. The Preferred Stock will be redeemable beginning two years after the first issuance of Preferred Stock at a price equal to 102% of the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock plus any accrued and unpaid dividends or, beginning three years after the first issuance of Preferred Stock, at a price equal to the liquidation preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Prior to two years after the first issuance, the Preferred Stock is redeemable at a make-whole rate. In the event of a change of control or liquidation event, the Company will be required to redeem the outstanding Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock will not have any voting rights except as required under Delaware law, but certain actions by the Company will require the consent of holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock. In addition, the Preferred Stock will include certain covenants restricting, among other things, restricted payments, the incurrence of indebtedness, acquisitions and investments. For information regarding our business and asset acquisitions, see Note 4 , Asset Acquisitions , Asset Contributions , and Business Combinations , to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding our business disposal, see Note 2, Disposal of Business . Competition 13 The U.S. acquiring industry is highly competitive, with several large processors accounting for the majority of processing volume; when excluding banks, we ranked 5th among U.S. merchant acquiring as of 2020, according to the 2020 Nilson Report issued in March 2021. When comparing top non-bank U.S. merchant acquirers by volume, FIS (which now includes Worldpay) held the leadership position at the end of 2020 followed by Global Payments (which now includes TSYS), and Fiserv (which now includes First Data). The concentration at the top of the industry partly reflects consolidation; however, we believe that consolidation has also resulted in many large processors having multiple, inflexible legacy IT systems that are not well equipped to adjust to changing market requirements. We believe that the large merchant acquirers whose innovation has been hindered by these redundant, legacy systems risk losing market share to acquirers with more agile and dynamic IT systems, such as Priority. Pricing has historically been the key factor influencing the selection of a merchant acquirer. However, providers with more advanced tech-enabled services (primarily online and integrated offerings) have an advantage over providers operating legacy technology and offering undifferentiated services that have come under pricing pressure from higher levels of competition. High quality customer service further differentiates providers as this helps to reduce attrition. Other competitive factors that set acquirers apart include price, partnerships with financial institutions, servicing capability, data security and functionality. Leading acquirers are expected to continue to add additional services to expand cross-selling opportunities, primarily in omni-channel payment solutions, POS software, payments security, customer loyalty and other payments-related offerings. The largest opportunity for acquirers to expand is within the small to medium-sized merchant market. According to the SMB Group, a markets insight firm for small and medium-sized businesses, the majority of small and medium-sized businesses recognize the upside tech-enabled solutions provide to daily operations and long-term growth potential. As small businesses increasingly demand integrated solutions tailored to specific business functions or industries merchant processors are adopting payment enabled software offerings that combine payments with core business operating software. By subsisting within SMB's critical business software processors are able to improve economic results through better merchant retention and often higher processing margins. Through our MX Merchant platform, we are well-positioned to capitalize on the trend towards integrated solutions, new technology adoption and value added-service utilization in the SMB market. Government Regulation and Payment Network Rules We operate in an increasingly complex legal and regulatory environment. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and the rules and standards of the payment networks that are utilized to provide our electronic payment services, as more fully described below. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board") to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction. Pursuant to the so-called "Durbin Amendment" to the Dodd-Frank Act, these fees must be "reasonable and proportional" to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. The cap on interchange fees has not had a material direct effect on our results of operations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act limits the ability of payment card networks to impose certain restrictions because it allows merchants to: (i) set minimum dollar amounts (not to exceed $10) for the acceptance of a credit card (and allows federal governmental entities and institutions of higher education to set maximum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards) and (ii) provide discounts or incentives to encourage consumers to pay with cash, checks, debit cards or credit cards. The rules also contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements and 14 restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements. The prohibition on network exclusivity has not significantly affected our ability to pass on network fees and other costs to our customers, nor do we expect it to in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has assumed responsibility for enforcing federal consumer protection laws, and the FSOC, which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the United States financial system. The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies that the FSOC determines pose a systemic risk to the United States financial system. Accordingly, we may be subject to additional systemic risk-related oversight. Payment Network Rules and Standards As a merchant acquirer, we are subject to the rules of Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other payment networks. In order to provide services, several of our subsidiaries are either registered as service providers for member institutions with MasterCard, Visa and other networks or are direct members of MasterCard, Visa and other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. Banking Laws and Regulations The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC") is an interagency body comprised of federal bank and credit union regulators such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. We are considered by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council to be a technology service provider ("TSP") based on the services we provide to financial institutions. As a TSP, we are subject to audits by an interagency group consisting of the Federal Reserve System, FDIC, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Privacy and Information Security Laws We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions in the United States, certain health care technology laws, including HIPAA and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Act, and the California Consumer Protection Act ("CCPA"), which establishes a new privacy framework for covered businesses by creating an expanded definition of personal information, establishing new data privacy rights for consumers in the State of California, imposing special rules on the collection of consumer data from minors, and creating a new and potentially severe statutory damages framework for violations of the CCPA and for businesses that fail to implement reasonable security procedures and practices to prevent data breaches. We are also subject to a variety of foreign data protection and privacy laws, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union and its successor, the General Data Protection Regulation. Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, in certain cases restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Regulation The United States federal anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the "BSA"), and the "BSA" implementing regulations administered by FinCEN, a bureau of the United States Department of the Treasury, require, among other things, each financial institution to: (1) develop and implement a risk-based anti-money laundering program; (2) file reports on large currency transactions; (3) file suspicious activity reports if the financial institution believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations; and (4) maintain transaction records. Given that a number of our clients are financial institutions that are directly subject to U.S. federal anti- 15 money laundering laws and regulations, we have developed an anti-money laundering compliance program to best assist our clients in meeting such legal and regulatory requirements. We are subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by OFAC of the United States Department of Treasury, which place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific). Similar anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified on lists maintained by organizations similar to OFAC in several other countries and which may impose specific data retention obligations or prohibitions on intermediaries in the payment process. We have developed and continue to enhance compliance programs and policies to monitor and address such legal and regulatory requirements and developments. We continue to enhance such programs and policies to ensure that our customers do not engage in prohibited transactions with designated countries, individuals or entities. Telephone Consumer Protection Act We are subject to the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act and various state laws to the extent we place telephone calls and short message service ("SMS") messages to clients and consumers. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act regulates certain telephone calls and SMS messages placed using automatic telephone dialing systems or artificial or prerecorded voices. Escheat Laws We are subject to U.S. federal and state unclaimed or abandoned property state laws in the United States that requires us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of other that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time. Moreover, we are subject to audit by state and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices. Other Regulation The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 requires certain merchant acquiring entities and third-party settlement organizations to provide information returns for each calendar year with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. The foregoing is not an exhaustive list of the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject to and the regulatory framework governing our business is changing continuously. Intellectual Property We have developed a payments platform that includes many instances of proprietary software, code sets, workflows and algorithms. It is our practice to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure, and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with other third parties, to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual measures, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, registered domain names, and patent rights to help protect the Priority brand and our other intellectual property. Human Capital Management 16 As of December 31, 2020, we employed 479 employees, of which 472 were employed full-time. We have employees residing in 30 states across the country. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Growth and Development Our strategy to develop and retain the best talent includes an emphasis on employee training and development. We promote our core values of ownership, innovation, camaraderie, service, authenticity and trust as an organization and offer awards to colleagues who exemplify these qualities. We require a mandatory online training curriculum for our employees that includes annual anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training. Well-being and Safety during COVID-19 Pandemic The success of our business is connected to the well-being of our employees. Accordingly, we are committed to the health, safety and wellness of our employees. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees and the communities in which we operate. This included enabling all of our employees to seamlessly shift to work from home. Over the past few years, we have made investments in our operating environments and technology that support day-to-day execution by employees working from home which allowed for the smooth transition. Additional health and safety measures have been implemented for employees who have elected to work within office locations. Inclusion and Diversity Our inclusion and diversity program focuses on our employees, workplace and community. We believe that our business is strengthened by a diverse workforce that reflects the communities in which we operate. We believe all of our employees should be treated with respect and equality, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religious beliefs, or other characteristics. As part of this goal, we launched a Diversity and Inclusion roundtable series for all employees to participate. Inclusion and diversity remains a common thread in all of our human resource practices so that we can attract, develop, and retain the best talent for our workforce. Availability of Filings Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are made available free of charge on our internet web site at www.prth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed the material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements and our other SEC filings. The address of that web site is https://www.sec.gov/. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 17 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock and our financial results are subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those generally affecting the industry in which we operate and risks that management currently deems immaterial, may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our business has been and is likely to continue to be negatively affected by the recent COVID-19 outbreak. The outbreak of COVID-19 in the United States, which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020, continues to adversely affect commercial activity and has contributed to significant declines in economic activity. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected a number of operational factors, including: merchant temporary closures and failures; continued and/or worsening unemployment which may negatively influence consumer spending; third-party disruptions, including potential outages at network providers, and other suppliers; and increased cyber and payment fraud risk. These factors may remain prevalent for a significant period of time and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. The full effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict at this time, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the restrictive actions taken to contain the virus or treat its effects, its effects on our customers and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions, operations and demand for our services can resume. Accordingly, while the COVID-19 pandemic could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results for reporting periods after 2020, the ultimate effects on our operations, financial condition and cash flows cannot be determined at this time. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant or cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems, computer viruses, or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. Our services include the processing, transmission and storing of sensitive business and personal information about our merchants, merchants customers, vendors, partners, and other third parties. This information may include credit and debit card numbers, bank account numbers, personal identification numbers, names and addresses or other sensitive business information. This information may also be stored by third parties to whom we outsource certain functions or other agents (associated third parties). We may have responsibility to the card networks, financial institutions, and in some instances, our merchants, and/or ISOs, for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information. . Information security risks for us and our competitors have substantially increased in recent years in part due to the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication, resources and activities of hackers, terrorists, activists, organized crime, and other external parties, including hostile nation-state actors. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, sabotage systems or utilize payment systems in an effort to perpetrate financial fraud change frequently and are often difficult to detect. Threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the internet and could infiltrate our systems or those of our associated third parties. Additionally, denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including interfering with our services or to create a diversion for other malicious activities. Our defensive measures may not prevent down-time, unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. While we maintain insurance coverage that will cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Furthermore, we do not control the actions of our third-party partners and customers in their systems. These third parties may experience security breaches and any future problems experienced by these third parties, including those resulting 18 from cyber attacks or other breakdowns or disruptions in services, could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business or expose us to liability. Further, our agreements with our bank sponsors and our third-party payment processors (as well as payment network requirements) require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. Any such actions, attacks or failure to adequately comply with these protective measures could hurt our reputation, force us to incur significant expenses in remediating the resulting impacts, expose us to uninsured liability, result in the loss of our bank sponsors or our ability to participate in the payment networks, or subject us to fees, penalties, sanctions, litigation or termination of our bank sponsor agreements or our third-party payment processor agreements. As a result of information security risks, we must continuously develop and enhance our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our computer systems, software, data and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access. This continuous development and enhancement will require us to expend additional resources, including to investigate and remediate significant information security vulnerabilities detected. Despite our investments in security measures, we are unable to assure that any security measures will not be subject to system or human error. Our systems or our third-party providers systems may fail, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Not only could we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Many of our contractual agreements with financial institutions and certain other customers require the payment of penalties if we do not meet certain operating standards. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, or telecommunications failure. The payment processing industry is highly competitive and such competition is likely to increase, which may adversely influence the prices we can charge to merchants for our services and the compensation we must pay to our distribution partners, and as a result, our profit margins. The payment processing industry is highly competitive. We primarily compete in the small to medium-size ("SMB") merchant industry. We compete with, financial institutions and their affiliates, independent payment processing companies, and ISOs. We also compete with many of these same entities for production through distribution partners. Many of our distribution partners are not exclusive to us but also have relationships with our competitors, such that we have to continually expend resources to maintain those relationships. Our growth will depend on the continued growth of payments with credit, debit and prepaid cards ("Electronic Payments"), particularly Electronic Payments to SMB merchants, and our ability to increase our market share through successful competitive efforts to gain new merchants and distribution partners. Additionally, many financial institutions and their subsidiaries or well-established payment-enabled technology providers with which we compete, have substantially greater capital, technological, management and marketing resources than we have. These factors may allow our competitors to offer better pricing terms to merchants and more attractive compensation to distribution partners, which could result in a loss of our potential or current merchants and distribution partners. Our current and future competitors may also develop or offer services that have price or other advantages over the services we provide. We also face new, well capitalized, competition from emerging technology and non-traditional payment processing companies as well as traditional companies offering alternative electronic payments services and payment enabled software solutions. If these new entrants gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, they could impact our ability to retain and grow our relationships with merchants and distribution partners. Acquirers may be susceptible to the adoption by the broader merchant community of payment enabled software versus terminal based payments. Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline. We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchant accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal negotiations and account closures that we initiate for various reasons such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. Our referral partners are 19 a significant source of new business. If a referral partner or an ISO switches to another processor, terminates our services, internalizes payment processing that we perform, merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors, or shuts down or becomes insolvent, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from such referral partner, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the referral partner or ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the organization and/or processing fees (known as interchange fees) that they charge. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in us absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Changes in payment network rules or standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Payment network rules are established and changed from time to time by each payment network as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. The timelines imposed by the payment networks for expected compliance with new rules have historically been, and may continue to be, highly compressed, requiring us to quickly implement changes to our systems which increases the risk of non-compliance with new standards. In addition, the payment networks could make changes to interchange or other elements of the pricing structure of the merchant acquiring industry that would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually update our products and services, a process which could result in increased costs and the loss of revenues, earnings, merchants and distribution partners if the new products and services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace. The electronic payments industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological changes and is characterized by new technology, product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing merchant needs and the entrance of non-traditional competitors. We are subject to the risk that our existing products and services become obsolete, and that we are unable to develop new products and services in response to industry demands. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and the evolving needs of our resellers, merchants and the industry at large. In addition, new products and offerings may not perform as intended or generate the business or revenue growth expected. Defects in our software and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential distribution partners and merchants, harm to our reputation, fines imposed by card networks, or exposure to liability claims. Any delay in the delivery of new products or services or the failure to differentiate our products and services could render them less desirable, or possibly even obsolete, to our merchants. Additionally, the market for alternative payment processing products and services is evolving, and we may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new products and services. Acquisitions create certain risks and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have actively acquired businesses and expect to continue to make acquisitions of businesses and assets in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses and assets involve a number of risks. These risks include valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business and assets), integration (managing the process of integrating the acquired business people, products, technology, and other assets to realize the projected value and synergies), regulatory (obtaining any applicable regulatory or other government approvals), and due diligence (identifying risks to the prospects of the business, including undisclosed or unknown liabilities or restrictions). There can be no assurances that we will be able to complete suitable acquisitions for a variety of reasons, including the identification of and competition for acquisition targets, the need for regulatory approvals, the 20 inability of the parties to agree to the structure or purchase price of the transaction and our inability to finance the transaction on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, any potential acquisition can subject us to a variety of other risks: If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to management of employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration; If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors; Any acquisition may otherwise cause disruption to the acquired companys business and operations and relationships with financial institution sponsors, customers, merchants, employees and other partners; Any acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new markets for payments technology and software solutions; and The costs related to the integration of an acquired companys business and operations into ours may be greater than anticipated. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles of our merchants and distribution partners and the overall level of consumer and commercial spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, commercial and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or aggregate dollar volume of transactions made using electronic payments. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments, or consumers spend less money through electronic payments, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. In addition, a weakening in the economy could force merchants to close at higher than historical rates, resulting in exposure to potential losses and a decline in the number of transactions that we process. We also have material fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service, contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Global economic, political and market conditions affecting the U.S. markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. Worldwide financial market conditions, as well as various social and political tensions in the United States and around the world, may contribute to increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the United States and may cause economic uncertainties or deterioration in the United States. The U.S. markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption during the economic downturn that began in mid-2007, and the U.S. economy was in a recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during the same period. In addition, the fiscal and monetary policies of foreign nations, such as Russia and China, may have a severe impact on U.S. financial markets. Any new legislation that may be adopted in the United States could significantly affect the regulation of U.S. financial markets. Areas subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Act and the authority of the Federal Reserve Board and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The United States may also potentially withdraw from or renegotiate various trade agreements and take other actions that would change current trade policies of the United States. We cannot predict which, if any, of these actions will be taken or, if taken, their effect on the financial stability of the United States. Such actions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly in view of the regulatory oversight we presently face. We cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the U.S. 21 economy in general, or specifically on our business model or growth strategy, which typically involves the use of debt financing. To the extent a downturn in the U.S. economy impacts our merchant accounts, regulatory changes increase the burden we face in operating our business, or disruptions in the credit markets prevent us from using debt to finance future acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. We rely on financial institutions and other service and technology providers. If they fail or discontinue providing their services or technology generally or to us specifically, our ability to provide services to merchants may be interrupted, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution, we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. We also rely on third parties to provide or supplement bankcard processing services and for infrastructure hosting services. We also rely on third parties for specific software and hardware used in providing our products and services. The termination by our service or technology providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with our merchants and, if we cannot find alternate providers quickly, may cause those merchants to terminate their relationship with us. We also rely in part on third parties for the development and access to new technologies, or updates to existing products and services for which third parties provide ongoing support, which increases the cost associated with new and existing product and service offerings. Failure by these third-party providers to devote an appropriate level of attention to our products and services could result in delays in introducing new products or services, or delays in resolving any issues with existing products or services for which third-party providers provide ongoing support. Fraud by merchants or others could cause us to incur losses. We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase in the future. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We incur liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse us for chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We have potential liability for chargebacks associated with the transactions we process. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is "charged back" to the merchant's bank and credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. If we or our bank sponsors are unable to collect the chargeback from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable (due to bankruptcy or other reasons) to reimburse the merchant's bank for the chargeback, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could increase our costs and decrease our revenues. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by requiring collateral and monitoring transaction activity. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations for membership. If we incur fines or penalties for which our merchants or ISOs are responsible that we cannot collect, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties . 22 We are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by the card networks themselves and may be influenced by card issuers, some of which are our competitors with respect to processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their influence on the networks, to alter the networks rules or policies to the detriment of non-members, including us. The termination of our registrations or our membership status as a service provider or merchant processor, or any changes in a card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, we or the merchant or ISO could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect or pursue collection of such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or Mastercard rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and Mastercard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business on its current scale. The loss of, for example, key personnel or of our ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel who have substantial experience in the electronic payments industry and the markets in which we offer our services. In addition, our success depends in large part upon the reputation within the industry of our senior managers who have developed relationships with our distribution partners, payment networks and other payment processing and service providers. Further, in order for us to continue to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, develop and retain personnel who will provide us with expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. Our success is also dependent on the skill and experience of our sales force, which we must continuously work to maintain. While we have many key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, we must also develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining the continuity of our operations. The market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Legal, Regulatory Compliance and Tax Risks Legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in various litigation matters, including but not limited to commercial disputes and employee claims, and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our relationship with our merchants, distribution partners and other third parties and could lead to additional related claims. Certain claims may seek injunctive relief, which could disrupt the ordinary conduct of our business and operations or increase our cost of doing business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against it, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation and cause us to expend resources in our defense. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in future litigation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any new laws and regulations, industry standards or revisions made to existing laws, regulations or industry standards affecting the electronic payments industry may have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by laws and regulations and examinations that affect us and our industries., Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and 23 the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Interchange fees are subject to intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act limits the amount of debit card fees charged by certain issuers, allowing merchants to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and allowing merchants to offer discounts or other incentives for different payment methods. These types of restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, which would adversely affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, which has assumed responsibility for enforcing federal consumer protection laws, and the FSOC, which has the authority to determine whether any non-bank financial company, which may include us within the definitional scope, should be supervised by the Federal Reserve because it is systemically important to the United States financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business, which increases our risk profile and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and many of our merchants may be subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. That statement and other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, may directly impact the activities of certain of our merchants and, in some cases, may subject us, as the merchant's electronic processor or provider of certain services, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds if we were deemed to have improperly aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal or improper activities of the merchant through our services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general, have authority to take action against non-banks that engage in unfair or deceptive practices or violate other laws, rules and regulations and to the extent we are processing payments or providing services for a merchant that may be in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. Our business may also be subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the "FCRA"), which regulates the use and reporting of consumer credit information and also imposes disclosure requirements on entities that take adverse action based on information obtained from credit reporting agencies. We could be liable if our practices under the FCRA are not in compliance with the FCRA or regulations under it. Separately, the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 included an amendment to the Internal Revenue Code that requires the filing of yearly information returns by payment processing entities and third-party settlement organizations with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Transactions that are reportable pursuant to these rules are subject to backup withholding requirements. We could be liable for penalties if our information returns do not comply with these regulations. These and other laws and regulations, even if not directed at us, may require us to make significant efforts to change our products and services and may require that we incur additional compliance costs and change how we price our services to merchants. Implementing new compliance efforts may be difficult because of the complexity of new regulatory requirements and may cause us to devote significant resources to ensure compliance. Furthermore, regulatory actions may cause changes in business practices by us and other industry participants which could affect how we market, price and distribute our products and services, which could limit our ability to grow, reduce our revenues, or increase our costs. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Third parties may challenge, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of service offerings or other competitive harm. Others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property and, in such cases, we could not assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. We may have to litigate to enforce or 24 determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, aspects of our business and our services rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to license or otherwise use third-party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation if our services and technology are alleged to infringe upon or otherwise violate a third-party's proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products, services or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for patent, copyright or trademark infringement, breach of license or violation of other third-party intellectual property rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement or other violations and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Even if we believe that intellectual property related claims are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Claims of intellectual property infringement or violation also might require us to redesign affected products or services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products or services. Even if we have an agreement for indemnification against such costs, the indemnifying party, if any in such circumstances, may be unable to uphold our contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Changes in tax laws in our significant tax jurisdictions could materially increase the amount of taxes we owe, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. For example, restrictions on the deductibility of interest expense in a U.S. jurisdiction without a corresponding reduction in statutory tax rates could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the period that such a change occurs and future periods. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor, manage and remediate our risks. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, merchants or other matters that are otherwise inaccessible by us. In some cases, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Additionally, our risk detection system is subject to a high degree of "false positive" risks being detected, which makes it difficult for us to identify real risks in a timely manner. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that materially increase our costs and subject us to reputational damage that could limit our ability to grow and cause us to lose existing merchant clients. Risk Related to Our Capital Structure We face risks related to our substantial indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may incur other debt in the future. Our level of debt and the covenant to which we agreed could have negative consequences on us, including, among other things, (1) requiring us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repayment of the debt; (2) limiting funds available for strategic initiatives and opportunities, working capital and other general corporate needs and (3) limiting our ability to incur certain kinds or amounts of additional indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to react to changes in our business, our industry and economic conditions. 25 Substantially all of our indebtedness is floating rate debt. As a result, an increase in interest rates generally, such as those we have recently experienced, would adversely affect our profitability. We may enter into pay-fixed interest rate swaps to limit our exposure to changes in floating interest rates. Such instruments may result in economic losses should interest rates decline to a point lower than our fixed rate commitments. We would be exposed to credit-related losses, which could impact the results of operations in the event of fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps due to a change in the credit worthiness or non-performance by the counterparties to the interest rate swaps. The credit agreements governing our existing credit facilities and any other debt instruments we may issue in the future will contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct business. The credit agreements governing our existing credit facilities contain operating covenants and financial covenants that may limit management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. In addition, any debt instruments we may issue in the future will likely contain similar operating and financial covenants restricting our business. Among other things, these covenants will restrict our ability to: pay dividends, or redeem or purchase equity interests; incur additional debt; incur liens; change the nature of our business; engage in transactions with affiliates; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; make acquisitions or other investments; and merge or consolidate with other entities. In addition, the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities contain a total net leverage ratio financial covenant. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. A breach of any of these covenants (or any other covenant in the documents governing our Senior Credit Agreement) could result in a default or event of default under our Senior Credit Agreement. If an event of default occurred, the applicable lenders or agents could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, or in the alternative, the applicable lenders or agents could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with our Senior Credit Agreement. Any acceleration of amounts due under the Senior Credit Agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on us. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion, and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration, amount, and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition, and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax, and regulatory restrictions, implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants of our existing and outstanding indebtedness and may be limited by covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Mr. Thomas Priore, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, controls the Company, and his interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. Thomas Priore and his affiliates have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence or modification of debt by us, amendments to our 26 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In addition, Thomas Priore may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions that, in his judgment, could enhance his investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, he could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or cause us to sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, in certain circumstances, acquisitions of debt at a discount by purchasers that are related to a debtor can give rise to cancellation of indebtedness income to such debtor for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that neither he nor any of his affiliates, or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. So long as Thomas Priore continues to own a significant amount of our combined voting power, even if such amount is less than 50%, he will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Furthermore, so long as Thomas Priore and his respective affiliates collectively own at least 50% of all outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, they will be able to appoint individuals to our board of directors. In addition, given his level of control, Thomas Priore will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of the Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of the Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of the Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants (the "Warrants") at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at $0.01 per warrant, if the last reported sales price (or the closing bid price of our common stock in the event the common stock is not traded on any specific trading day) of the common stock equals or exceeds $16.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the date we send proper notice of such redemption, provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the Warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available or cashless exercise is exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. If and when the Warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding Warrants could force a warrant holder: (i) to exercise Warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell Warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your Warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding Warrants are called for redemption, may be substantially less than the market value of your Warrants. The liquidity of the Warrants may be limited. There is a limited trading market for our Warrants, which might adversely affect the liquidity, market price and price volatility of the Warrants. In addition, our publicly-traded Warrants have been removed from quotation on The Nasdaq Global Market. As a result, investors in our Warrants may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Warrants, and the ability of our stockholders to sell our Warrants in the secondary market has been materially limited. Financial Risks Changes in the method for determining the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and the potential replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The majority of our current indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR, and we may incur additional indebtedness based on LIBOR. In July 2017, the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"), a regulator of 27 financial services firms and financial markets in the United Kingdom, stated that they will plan for a phase out of regulatory oversight of LIBOR interest rates indices. The FCA has indicated they will support the LIBOR indices through 2021, to allow for an orderly transition to an alternative reference rate. The ICE Benchmark Administration Limited recently announced that it will consult on its intention to extend the publication of most tenors LIBOR to June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee has proposed the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its recommended alternative to LIBOR, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing SOFR rates in April 2018. SOFR is intended to be a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. At this time, it is not possible to predict when LIBOR will be replaced as the reference rate in the agreements governing the Companys indebtedness or the effect any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR, or the establishment of alternative reference rates such as SOFR, or any other reference rate, will have on the Company. If LIBOR ceases to exist or the methods of calculating LIBOR change from their current form, however, the Companys borrowing costs may be adversely affected. 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N/A ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We maintain several offices across the United States, all of which we lease. Our key office locations include: corporate headquarters in Alpharetta, Georgia; administrative office in Hicksville, NY; and administrative office in New York, NY. We lease several small facilities for sales and operations. Our current facilities meet the needs of our employee base and can accommodate our currently contemplated growth. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved in certain other legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of the Company, based on consultations with inside and outside counsel, the results of any of these ordinary course matters, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. As more information becomes available and we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable on a claim and that the amount of probable loss that we will incur on that claim is reasonably estimable, we will record an accrued expense for the claim in question. If and when we record such an accrual, it could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES N/A 29 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Prior to the consummation of the Business Combination on July 25, 2018, MI Acquisitions' common stock, warrants and units were each listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "MACQ," "MACQW" and "MACQU," respectively. Upon the consummation of the Business Combination and the change of the Company's name to Priority Technology Holdings, Inc., our common stock commenced trading on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "PRTH" and our warrants and units commenced trading under the symbols "PRTHW" and "PRTHU," respectively. As of March 6, 2019, our warrants and units were delisted from trading on The Nasdaq Global Market. Following their delisting, our warrants and units became available to be quoted in the over-the-counter market under the symbols "PRTHW" and "PRTHU," respectively. Holders As of March 24, 2021, we had 32 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not include the number of persons whose securities are held in nominee or "street" name accounts through brokers. With the exception of one holder, all of our outstanding warrants and units were held in nominee or "street" name accounts through brokers. Dividends We have never declared or paid, and do not anticipate declaring or paying in the foreseeable future, any cash dividends on our common stock. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. 30 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth selected historical financial information derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read the following selected financial data in conjunction with the sections entitled " Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " and the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018 Statement of operations data: Revenues $ 404,342 $ 371,854 $ 375,822 Operating expenses 383,481 364,670 359,429 Income from operations 20,861 7,184 16,393 Interest expense (44,839) (40,653) (29,935) Gain on sale of business, net 107,239 Debt extinguishment and modification expenses (1,899) (2,043) Other income (expenses), net 596 710 (4,741) Income (loss) before income taxes 81,958 (32,759) (20,326) Income tax expense (benefit) 10,899 830 (2,490) Net income (loss) 71,059 (33,589) (17,836) Less earnings attributable to redeemable and redeemed non-controlling interests (45,398) Net income (loss) attributable to stockholders of Priority Technology Holdings, Inc. $ 25,661 $ (33,589) $ (17,836) Common stockholders of Priority Technology Holdings, Inc.: Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.38 $ (0.50) $ (0.29) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.38 $ (0.50) $ (0.29) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Statement of cash flows data: Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 47,072 $ 39,364 $ 31,348 Investing activities $ 166,396 $ (97,747) $ (108,928) Financing activities $ (175,813) $ 75,017 $ 67,252 As of December 31, 2020 2019 Balance sheet data: Cash and restricted cash $ 88,120 $ 50,465 Total assets $ 417,829 $ 464,505 Total liabilities $ 516,393 $ 585,194 Total stockholders' deficit $ (98,564) $ (120,689) Shares of common stock outstanding 67,391 67,061 31 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations together with " Item 6 - Selected Financial Data " and our audited financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business, operations and industry that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our future results and financial condition may differ materially from those currently anticipated by us as a result of the factors described in the sections entitled " Item 1A - Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward - Looking Statements ." Certain amounts in this section may not add mathematically due to rounding. For a description and additional information about our three reportable segments, see Note 18 , Segment Information , contained in "