Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our managements expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Furthermore, statements regarding our initial business combination, including the anticipated initial enterprise value and post-closing equity value of the combined company, the benefits of the proposed initial business combination, integration plans, expected synergies and revenue opportunities, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth, the expected management and governance of the combined company, and the expected timing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement (as defined below), are forward-looking statements. The words anticipates, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this report may include, for example, statements about our: ability to complete our initial business combination; success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors following our initial business combination; officers and directors allocating their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest with our business or in approving our initial business combination, as a result of which they would then receive expense reimbursements; potential ability to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination; pool of prospective target businesses; the ability of our officers and directors to generate a number of potential investment opportunities; potential change in control if we acquire one or more target businesses for stock; the potential liquidity and trading of our securities; the lack of a market for our securities; use of proceeds not held in the trust account or available to us from interest income on the trust account balance; or financial performance following our initial public offering. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, (i) risks related to the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the pending initial business combination, including the risk that the transaction may not close due to one or more closing conditions to the transaction not being satisfied or waived, such as regulatory approvals not being obtained, on a timely basis or otherwise, or that a governmental entity prohibited, delayed or refused to grant approval for the consummation of the transaction or required certain conditions, limitations or restrictions in connection with such approvals, or that the required approval of the Purchase Agreement by the stockholders of the Company was not obtained; (ii) risks related to the ability of the Company and Priority (as defined below) to successfully integrate the businesses; (iii) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Purchase Agreement (including circumstances requiring a party to pay the other party a termination fee pursuant to the Purchase Agreement); (iv) the risk that there may be a material adverse change with respect to the financial position, performance, operations or prospects of Priority or the Company; (v) risks related to disruption of management time from ongoing business operations due to the proposed initial business combination; (vi) the risk that any announcements relating to the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the market price of the Companys Common Stock; (vii) the risk that the proposed initial business combination and its announcement could have an adverse effect on the ability of Priority and the Company to retain customers and retain and hire key personnel and maintain relationships with their suppliers and customers and on their operating results and businesses generally; (viii) risks related to successfully integrating the businesses of the Priority and the Company, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (ix) the risk that the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; and (x) risks associated with the financing of the proposed transaction. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws and/or if and when management knows or has a reasonable basis on which to conclude that previously disclosed projections are no longer reasonably attainable. 13 References to M I Acquisitions, we, us, our or the Company are to M I Acquisitions Inc., except where the context requires otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview We were formed on April 23, 2015 for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more target businesses. Our efforts to identify a prospective target business will not be limited to any particular industry or geographic region, although we intend to focus on target businesses operating in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. We intend to utilize cash derived from the proceeds of our public offering in effecting our initial business combination. On September 19, 2016, we consummated our initial public offering (the Offering) of 5,000,000 units (the Units). Each Unit consists of one share of common stock (Common Stock), and one warrant (Public Warrant) to purchase one share of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $50,000,000. We granted the underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to 750,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any. Simultaneously with the consummation of the Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 402,500 units (the Private Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total proceeds of $4,025,000. The underwriters exercised the over-allotment option in part and, on October 14, 2016, the underwriters purchased 310,109 over-allotment option Units, which were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $3,101,090. On October 14, 2016, simultaneously with the sale of the Over-Allotment Units, we consummated the private sale of an additional 18,607 Private Units to one of the initial stockholders, generating gross proceeds of $186,070. The remainder of the over-allotment option expired unexercised. We presently have no revenue, have had losses since inception from incurring formation costs and have had no operations other than the active solicitation of a target business with which to complete a business combination. We have relied upon the sale of our securities and loans from our officers and directors to fund our operations. As of May 11 th , 2018, a total of $55,585,400.56 was held in the trust account established for the benefit of the Companys public shareholders. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally towards consummating a business combination. Proposed Business Combination On February 26, 2018, we entered into a Contribution Agreement with Priority Investment Holdings, LLC and Priority Incentive Equity Holdings, LLC (collectively, the Interest Holders) to acquire all of the outstanding equity interests of Priority Holdings, LLC (Priority), a leading provider of B2C and B2B payment processing solutions. On March 26, 2018, we entered into an Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement with the Interest Holders, and we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement on April 17, 2018 (as amended and restated, the Purchase Agreement). Upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, we will acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding equity securities of Priority, which will result in Priority becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of M I Acquisitions. The consideration to be paid by us to the Interest Holders in the business combination is a number of shares of M I Acquisitions common stock equal to Prioritys equity value (which the Purchase Agreement defines as of the signing date as the $947.8 million enterprise value of Priority, less the net debt of Priority, subject to certain adjustments as described in the Purchase Agreement) divided by $10.30. If Priority acquires or contracts to acquire any businesses prior to the closing of the Business Combination that increase Prioritys Earnout Adjusted EBITDA in aggregate by more than $9.0 million, Prioritys enterprise value will increase by multiplying the incremental increase in Earnout Adjusted EBITDA of such acquisition by 12.5, provided that estimated synergies related to any such acquisitions and proposed acquisitions included in the Earnout Adjusted EBITDA calculation of Priority shall be capped at 20% of the Earnout Adjusted EBITDA of the applicable acquisition with respect to the 12-month period immediately preceding the consummation of such acquisition. In order to be included in the above calculation, any agreements to acquire a business must be subject only to payment of cash and/or other consideration to the target and must close within 30 days following closing of the Business Combination. In addition, any cash that Priority spends to acquire any technology assets, up to $5.0 million, to purchase securities from the M Is founders pursuant to the Founders Share Agreement described below or to extend the time we have to complete a business combination, will be included in the calculation of net debt as cash and cash equivalents (which would reduce the amount of net debt, effectively increasing the assumed equity value of Priority and increasing the number of shares that would be issued to the Interest Holders). 14 An additional 9.8 million shares of M I Acquisitions common stock may be issued as earn-out consideration to the Interest Holders, or at their election, to members of Prioritys management or other service providers post-business combination pursuant to the Earnout Incentive Plan4.9 million shares for the first earn-out and 4.9 million shares for the second earn-out. For the first earn-out, the Earnout Adjusted EBITDA of M I Acquisitions must be no less than $82.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2018 and the M I Acquisitions stock price must have traded in excess of $12.00 for any 20 trading days within any consecutive 30-day trading period at any time on or before December 31, 2019. For the second earn-out, the Earnout Adjusted EBITDA of M I Acquisitions must be no less than $91.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2019 and the M I Acquisitions stock price must have traded in excess of $14.00 for any 20 trading days within any consecutive 30-day trading period at any time between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2020. In the event that the first earn-out targets are not met, the entire 9.8 million shares may be issued if the second earn-out targets are met. On February 26, 2018, our founding stockholders (the Founders) and Priority entered into a purchase agreement (the Founders Share Agreement) pursuant to which Priority agreed to purchase 421,107 of the units issued to the Founders in a private placement immediately prior to M I Acquisitions initial public offering, and 453,210 shares of common stock of M I Acquisitions issued to the Founders, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.1 million. In addition, pursuant to the Founders Share Agreement, the Founders will forfeit 174,863 founders shares at the closing of the Business Combination, which shares may be reissued to the Founders if one of the earn outs described above (and relating to the Purchase Agreement consideration) is achieved. In addition, the Founders and Thomas C. Priore, the Executive Chairman of Priority (TCP), entered into a letter agreement (the Letter Agreement) pursuant to which the Founders granted TCP (i) the right to purchase at any time all or some of the Founders remaining shares of our common stock at the prevailing market price subject to certain conditions including a floor of $10.30 per share and (ii) a right of first refusal on any proposed transfer of shares by the Founders. A more detailed description of the Purchase Agreement and Priority and the related transactions can be found in our preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 19, 2018. Recent Developments On April 12, 2018, the Company issued promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $132,753 to Priority . The $132,753 received by the Company upon issuance of the note was deposited into the Companys trust account for the benefit of its public stockholders in order to extend the period of time the Company has to complete a business combination for an additional one month, from April 19, 2018 to May 19, 2018. The note does not bear interest and are payable five business days after the date the Company completes a business combination. On April 19, 2018, the Company issued a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $76,771 to Priority Holdings, LLC. The note does not bear interest and are payable five business days after the date the Company completes a business combination. On April 26, 2018, the Company filed with the SEC a preliminary proxy statement for an annual meeting which includes proposals to extend the time required to close a Business Combination to September 17, 2018. The Company anticipates holding the annual meeting on or about June 15, 2018. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to September 19, 2016 was in preparation for the Offering. Since the Offering, our activity has been limited to the evaluation of business combination candidates, and we will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate small amounts of non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. Interest income is not expected to be significant in view of current low interest rates on risk-free investments (treasury securities). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. Our expenses have increased substantially since closing the Offering. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we had a net loss of $146,750. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred $291,228 of general and administrative expenses and $30,000 of administrative fees paid to a related party. For the quarter ended March 31, 2018, these expenses were partially offset by other income totaling $174,478, which was comprised of interest income. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we had a net loss of $188,845. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we incurred $215,466 of general and administrative expenses and $30,000 of administrative fees paid to a related party. For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, these expenses were partially offset by other income totaling $56,621, which was comprised of interest income. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018, we had cash outside our trust account of $39,114. 15 Our liquidity needs have been satisfied to date through the Offering, the receipt of $25,000 from the sale of the insider shares and loans from insiders and a related party and an unrelated party in an aggregate amount of $318,692. During the three months ended Mach 31, 2018, we withdrew interest income totaling $5,260 to be utilized for payment of tax obligations. We intend to use substantially all of the net proceeds of the Offering, including the funds held in the trust account, in connection with our initial business combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto, including a deferred underwriting commission payable to Chardan Capital Markets, LLC in an amount equal to 2.0% of the total gross proceeds raised in the offering upon consummation of our initial business combination. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to effect our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial business combination if the funds available to us outside of the trust account were insufficient to cover such expenses. We anticipate that the approximately $39,000 outside of our trust account will be insufficient to allow us to operate until June 19, 2018, or until we complete the Business Combination, if our stockholders authorize an extension of the deadline for us to do so. We may need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our shareholders, officers, directors, or third parties to allow us to operate until June 19, 2018, or until we complete the Business Combination, if our stockholders authorize an extension of the deadline for us to do so. None of the shareholders, officers or directors are under any obligation to advance funds to, or to invest in, our company. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of our business plan, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These matters, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. If our estimates of the costs of undertaking due diligence and negotiating our initial business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, or the amount of interest available to us from the trust account is less than we expect as a result of the current interest rate environment, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial business combination or because we become obligated to convert a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only consummate such financing simultaneously with the consummation of our initial business combination. Following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.