Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As a smaller reporting company we are not required to make disclosures under this Item. 20 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Overview We were formed on April 23, 2015 for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more target businesses. Our efforts to identify a prospective target business will not be limited to any particular industry or geographic region, although we intend to focus on target businesses operating in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. We intend to utilize cash derived from the proceeds of our public offering in effecting our initial business combination. We presently have no revenue, have had losses since inception from incurring formation costs and have had no operations other than the active solicitation of a target business with which to complete a business combination. We have relied upon the sale of our securities and loans from our officers and directors to fund our operations. On September 19, 2016, we consummated our IPO of 5,000,000 Units. Each Unit consists of one share of Common Stock and one Public Warrant to purchase one share of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $50,000,000. We granted the underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to 750,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any. Simultaneously with the consummation of the IPO, we consummated the Private Placement of 402,500 Private Units at a price of $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total proceeds of $4,025,000. The underwriters exercised the over-allotment option in part and, on October 14, 2016, the underwriters purchased 310,109 over-allotment option Units, which were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $3,101,090. On October 14, 2016, simultaneously with the sale of the Over-Allotment Units, we consummated the private sale of an additional 18,607 Private Units to one of the initial stockholders, generating gross proceeds of $186,070. The remainder of the over-allotment option expired unexercised. As of December 31, 2016, a total of $54,731,828 of the net proceeds from the Offering (including the partial exercise of the over-allotment option) and the Private Placement were in a trust account established for the benefit of the Companys public shareholders. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally towards consummating a business combination. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to December 31, 2016 was related to the Companys formation, the IPO and general and administrative activities. Since the IPO, our activity has been limited to the evaluation of business combination candidates, and we will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate small amounts of non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash and cash equivalents. Interest income is not expected to be significant in view of current low interest rates on risk-free investments (treasury securities). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. We expect our expenses to increase substantially after this period. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we had a net loss of $107,995. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we incurred $137,529 of general and administrative expenses and $35,667 of administrative fees paid to a related party. These expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were offset by $27,500 for the extinguishment of debt recorded by the Company on the amendment of a note payable and $37,701 of interest income. For the period from April 23, 2016 (Inception) to December 31, 2015, we had a net loss of $10,226 which was comprised of formation and operating costs. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016, we had cash outside our trust account of $362,535. Our liquidity needs have been satisfied to date through receipt of $25,000 from the sale of the insider shares, loans and advances from insiders and a related party and an unrelated party in an aggregate amount of $241,921 that were repaid at the closing of the IPO, and the proceeds from the IPO and Private Placement. We intend to use substantially all of the net proceeds of the IPO, including the funds held in the trust account, in connection with our initial business combination and to pay our expenses relating thereto, including a deferred underwriting commission payable to Chardan Capital Markets, LLC in an amount equal to 2.0% of the total gross proceeds raised in the offering upon consummation of our initial business combination. To the extent that our capital stock is used in whole or in part as consideration to effect our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account as well as any other net proceeds not expended will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial business combination if the funds available to us outside of the trust account were insufficient to cover such expenses. We anticipate that the approximately $362,535 outside of our trust account will be sufficient to allow us to operate until June 19, 2018, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for identifying and evaluating prospective business combination candidates, performing business due diligence on prospective target businesses, traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses, reviewing corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, selecting the target business to consummate our initial business combination with and structuring, negotiating and consummating the business combination. We anticipate that we will incur approximately: $150,000 of expenses for the search for target businesses and for the legal, accounting and other third-party expenses attendant to the due diligence investigations, structuring and negotiating of our initial business combination; $50,000 of expenses for the due diligence and investigation of a target business by our officers, directors and insiders; $94,500 of expenses in legal and accounting fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; $150,000 for the payment of the administrative fee to Magna Management LLC (of $10,000 per month for up to remaining 15 months we have to seek a potential business combination), subject to deferral as described herein; $5,000 for general working capital that will be used for miscellaneous expenses, liquidation obligations and reserves, including director and officer liability insurance premiums. If our estimates of the costs of undertaking due diligence and negotiating our initial business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, or the amount of interest available to us from the trust account is less than we expect as a result of the current interest rate environment, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to consummate our initial business combination or because we become obligated to convert a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our initial business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only consummate such financing simultaneously with the consummation of our initial business combination. Following our initial business combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. 22 Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or entered into any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations At December 31, 2016, we did not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities other than a monthly fee of $10,000 for general and administrative services payable to Magna Management LLC, an affiliate of our insiders, which will be paid for up to 21 months starting on the closing date of the IPO. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following as our critical accounting policies: Common stock subject to possible conversion: We account for our common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance enumerated in ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity . Common stock subject to mandatory conversion are classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally convertible common stock (including common shares that feature conversion rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to conversion upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain conversion rights that are considered by us to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the common stock subject to possible conversion is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the balance sheet. Going concern: The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates, among other things, the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $363,000 in cash and cash equivalents held outside Trust Account, approximately $38,000 in interest income available from the Company's investments in the Trust Account to pay its income tax obligations, and a working capital of approximately $269,000. Further, the Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs in pursuit of its financing and acquisition plans. The Companys plans to raise capital or to consummate the initial Business Combination may not be successful. These matters, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. 23 Based on the foregoing, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate its business through the earlier of consummation of a Business Combination or March 19, 2018. Following the initial Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, the Company may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet its obligations. The Company cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. ASU 2014-15 provides guidance on managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organizations ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. For each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about a companys ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The amendments in ASU 2014-15 are effective for annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual and interim periods thereafter. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has elected to adopt the methodologies prescribed by ASU 2014-15. The adoption of ASU 2014-15 had no material effect on its financial position or results of operations. Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.