Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our success in building our customer base, expanding usage and value for existing customers, and helping digitize the industry has allowed us to achieve significant growth. We generated revenue of $1,151.7 million in 2024, $950.0 million in 2023, and $720.2 million in 2022, representing year-over-year growth of 21% in 2024 and 32% in 2023. We had net losses of $106.0 million in 2024, $189.7 million in 2023, and $286.9 million in 2022. Our Industry We serve the construction industry ecosystem, which is highly fragmented and specialized. The construction process relies on coordination among highly fragmented and specialized groups. Key stakeholders engage in financing, budgeting, designing, building, and maintaining commercial, residential, industrial, and infrastructure projects while navigating varying responsibilities, risk profiles, and motives. Completing a project safely, on time, and within budget requires effective collaboration between stakeholders across workstreams, sharing information in a timely and effective manner, and navigating increasing contractual and regulatory complexity. Our customers include key stakeholders in the construction ecosystem, such as: Owners. Owners initiate construction projects, secure financing, work with architects, engineers, and consultants on building design, hire general contractors to manage the construction process, and are the ultimate decision-makers throughout a project. Owners include corporations, universities, government entities, and commercial and residential real estate developers. Once a project is 6 Table of Contents completed, owners are responsible for operating, leasing, or selling the structure, or outsourcing such processes to a third party. General contractors. General contractors coordinate the construction project and fulfill the demands of owners while simultaneously maintaining oversight and responsibility for specialty contractors and other vendors. Specialty contractors. Specialty contractors, commonly referred to as subcontractors, are hired by general contractors for their specialized skills, such as mechanical, electrical, plumbing, roofing, or concrete trades, and perform the vast majority of construction work, including sourcing materials. The construction industry has four defining characteristics: Construction is a custom business. Construction projects are typically custom, and each project has a distinctive combination of dynamic variables, including unique project teams, design, materials, financing, terrain, regulations, and schedules. The workforce is mobile and decentralized. Construction happens on the jobsite, not at the office, which increases the importance of mobile access to project data. Construction workers often operate with out-of-date or incomplete project information and struggle to collaborate effectively with other stakeholders, leading to mistakes that may translate to costly rework and extended project timelines. Given mistakes not only impact the progress of the project but also expose workers to safety risks, the need for mobile collaboration solutions and timely access to instructions, designs, documentation, and reporting is becoming increasingly critical for managing and optimizing a dispersed workforce. Stakeholder dynamics are complex. Construction projects require collaboration across a wide range of stakeholders who often have a different set of interests and lack familiarity and trust with one another, yet are all interdependent and ultimately share project risks. All project participants are adversely impacted when a project is delayed, runs over budget, or does not meet quality or safety requirements. In order to avoid related financial losses, stakeholders are often quick to redirect responsibility to other participants on a project and seek to resolve disputes in court. Change is constant. Construction project designs, schedules, and budgets are modified frequently. Construction teams typically run into unforeseen issues requiring a workaround, or the owner may decide to make a modification to the project. As a result, the design that teams set out to build rarely matches the finished product. A modification can trigger costly changes to a projects schedule and require timely communication to teams on the ground to minimize or avoid mistakes. Our Platform Our platform is built to be modern, intuitive, and open, with a modular and extensible architecture that not only includes the breadth and depth of functionality of our own products, but also integrates with third-party applications and our customers own customized applications. We offer a broad set of product solutions that we primarily monetize through subscriptions. We also support and enhance our customers use of these product solutions with a comprehensive set of platform capabilities. Product Solutions Our platform includes four integrated product solutions that allow data and workflows to transparently cross the phases of a construction project. Our customers typically purchase subscriptions to access our products on a product-by-product basis. The products that a customer chooses to purchase within each integrated product solution depend on the customers specific requirements and the distinct buyer personas that will utilize the products. We also provide different functionality to customers for each product, depending on a customers unique needs. Our platform approach allows us to drive additional spend from our customers by cross-selling additional product solutions, services, and platform capabilities that address their needs. Preconstruction. Our Preconstruction products, including Estimating, Bid Management, 2D/3D Takeoff, Design Coordination, and Prequalification, facilitate collaboration between internal and external stakeholders during the takeoff, planning, budgeting, estimating, bidding, design, and partner selection phases of a construction project. Our products are designed to help reduce financial and operational risk across key stakeholders before construction begins. 7 Table of Contents Project Execution. Our Project Execution products, including Project Management, Quality, Safety, Field Scheduling, and Closeout, connect construction project teams by helping to ensure project information is aggregated in an up-to-date cloud-based platform, available to all project participants, and accurate so that work on the jobsite is completed correctly and safely. These products enable collaboration, information transmission and storage, and safety regulation compliance for teams on the jobsite and in the back office. Users have the ability to log critical information, track project progress, and escalate issues for approvals from the correct team members. They can also identify, understand, and proactively resolve the causes of issues and risky behaviors before they result in an injury or accident. Resource Management. Our Resource Management products, including Field Productivity, Workforce Planning, Equipment Management, and Materials Management, help customers schedule, track, and forecast workforce and equipment productivity, improve time management, communicate more efficiently with their workforces, optimize procurement and movement of materials, and better manage profitability on construction projects. By using these products, customers can create detailed productivity records that can be referenced during the bidding process. Financial Management. Our Financial Management products, including Project Financials, Accounting Integrations, and Procore Pay, provide customers with visibility into the financial health of their individual construction projects and portfolios, facilitate untethered access to financial data, and support payments between key stakeholders. These products improve cost management, invoice collection, review, and approval, and budget forecasting and tracking. Our platform also supports integrations with a majority of the industrys preferred accounting systems to minimize data entry errors. Our Procore Pay solution handles all aspects of the payment process between general contractors and subcontractors via a single system that promotes visibility and transparency for tracking payment requirements and automates the exchange of lien waivers. Platform Capabilities Our platform features a number of capabilities that underlie our product solutions and enable us to launch new products and services and increase the breadth and depth of our existing products and services. Our broad range of platform capabilities support the diverse needs of the different personas that use our products and platform. In order to create a centralized hub for construction project information, we have developed an extensible platform that connects our customers business applications, people, devices, and data. Our platform capabilities include: Artificial Intelligence (AI). We are developing capabilities that will allow customers to leverage AI in our platform to help increase productivity, reduce risks, and deliver projects on time and within budget. Our AI platform capabilities include Copilot, an AI-powered assistant that acts as a central hub and conversational interface enabling users to interact with and retrieve project-specific information and status, and Insights, which analyzes industry, company, and project data within our platform in order to provide timely and contextual advice to users by identifying trends and predicting potential project risks. Analytics. Our platform gives customers the ability to generate deep insights from aggregated data across all projects, various products, and integrated accounting software. Customers can track trends and conduct analysis using pre-built reports, all of which are customizable to suit individual customer needs. Building Information Modeling (BIM). Our platform enables all users in the field to view and collaborate on 3D models, which allows project teams to more efficiently plan and construct their projects. Field workers can access project models quickly, with an easy-to-use navigation interface that ties 3D models to drawings. Users can bridge the gap between 3D modeling and 2D documentation and enhance accuracy by generating 2D drawings or views directly from 3D models. These capabilities improve decision-making and reduce rework by ensuring that work is coordinated and installed correctly the first time. Collaborations. Our platform allows users to connect projects across accounts and share project information with other team members. Our Collaborations platform capabilities include Connectability, 8 Table of Contents which helps customers streamline construction projects, enhance productivity, and reduce errors by syncing the latest drawings across projects and teams and storing project information in one place. Document Management. Our platform allows customers to safely store, access, and share project documents. Users can quickly upload revisions to drawings and specifications to help ensure that project team members have up-to-date project information whether theyre working in the field or in the office. Ecosystem. Our Ecosystem platform capabilities enable our App Marketplace, which helps customers enhance their use of our products with third-party integrations, connecting critical business workflows and processes, and allowing customers to maintain a single system of record while leveraging software solutions that provide an array of functionality. Our App Marketplace houses over 500 integrations, including to other construction software technology companies. Enterprise Flexibility. Our platform offers configurable fields and forms, improving the degree of precision with which customers can track data and secure documentation. It also allows customers to create designated workflows to match the approval sequence and processes that are appropriate for their businesses. In addition, our platform provides comprehensive user permission functionality. Permissions define who has access to certain project and company-level information. By default, we provide customers with several role-based permission templates, and these permissions are configurable down to the tool access level by user. Maps. Our platform allows customers to visualize construction data by storing and viewing photos of their active projects on an interactive map. Users can filter the items on a map with the help of GPS data. Zones. Our platform provides regional locations for our global cloud infrastructure that allow customers to store and manage their data locally, closer to their business while driving availability, observability, and reliability. Our Core Customer Stakeholders and the Benefits Provided by Our Platform We serve customers ranging from small businesses managing a few million dollars of annual construction volume to global enterprises managing billions of dollars of annual construction volume. Our core customers are owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors operating across the residential and non-residential segments of the construction industry. For additional information on these core customers, see Our Industry above. We believe that our ability to deliver products and platform capabilities that address our customers specific needs, including by enabling streamlined communication and timely access to data, is essential to driving increased productivity and efficiency, reducing rework and costly delays, improving safety and compliance, and enhancing financial transparency and accountability. Owners Owners need the ability to plan capital expenditures, accurately estimate project costs, source high-quality general contractors to manage construction work, and track project progress with a high degree of visibility. We help owners save significant time and money by providing financial and operational visibility into their projects. It is critical for owners bottom lines that they remain informed of what work has been completed, when it was completed, and what specifically was built or installed. Not only is this information crucial for ongoing projects, but it is also necessary for long-term asset management, as the underlying data allows for more efficient, effective, and predictive maintenance. General contractors General contractors often manage their businesses with small profit margins, with little room for error. Inadequate information flows, such as not providing specialty contractors with the latest set of plans, can result in costly project delays, overages, and unfulfilled expectations. General contractors are also compelled to perform duplicate data entry in disparate systems and are accustomed to dealing with invoicing errors, information silos, and disconnected point solutions. We have developed a cloud-based platform to allow general 9 Table of Contents contractors to manage their projects from a smart device in their hand, with the goal of facilitating exceptional teamwork, reducing costly rework, mitigating risk, and improving profit margins. Specialty contractors For specialty contractors to be successful, it is imperative that they are able to effectively track and manage their crews, materials, equipment, and cash flow. However, specialty contractors often utilize disparate point software solutions or antiquated documentation systems, such as pen and paper or physical whiteboards, which means they lack a consistent way to track labor production rates, monitor safety compliance and quality of work, ensure they are working off the latest set of plans and schedules, or document work completed as part of the invoicing process. Specialty contractors frequently experience delays and disruptions in work progress as a result of not having timely access to the most up-to-date information, such as when other stakeholders make changes to project plans or schedules and do not effectively communicate those changes to specialty contractors. Our platform features intuitive, easy-to-use tools that allow specialty contractors to leverage accurate, timely information, reduce unnecessary data entry, visualize productivity trends, document completed work, and get paid the correct amounts faster. Our Business Model We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products and have an unlimited user model that is designed to facilitate adoption and maximize usage of our platform by all project stakeholders. We primarily sell our products on a subscription basis for a fixed fee with pricing generally based on the number and mix of products and the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform. As we grow, we believe that the value of our business will increase across three key dimensions: Network. Our business model is designed to encourage rapid, widespread adoption by allowing for unlimited users, meaning that we do not charge a per-seat or per-user fee. Customers can invite all project participants to engage with our platform as part of a project team, including customers employees and collaborators, who are other project participants who engage with our platform but do not pay us for such use. Thereafter, collaborators have an incentive to become customers so that they can manage their complete portfolio of projects on our platform, use our products to improve their business processes, and maintain ownership of project data. For example, Connectability for Drawings enables customers to share drawings across all of their associated accounts, allowing for drawings for a downstream project to sync to an upstream project. Products. We believe our expertise in construction and close relationship with our customers and collaborators enable us to deliver easy-to-use and feature-rich products, specifically tailored to solve the problems of the industrys key stakeholders and help them manage their businesses more effectively. Our products are offered la carte and are integrated into our cloud-based platform. Our customer support team provides live support to all users at no additional cost, as well as numerous online resources. We also provide optional professional services at an extra cost to support customers who are implementing new product solutions or who need ongoing guidance with their product subscriptions. Data. Our platform captures extensive data across stakeholders and each stage of a project, which enables us to create a system of record for all stakeholders and to analyze project and industry trends. Our platform captures data encompassing bidding, safety, cost, quality, scheduling, materials, supplier information, and other types of data. We believe our unique access to data through our platform will allow our team to assess construction risk faster and more accurately than traditional methods, and our goal is to use such data to scale and automate our product offerings. 10 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy We intend to leverage our existing products and industry presence to establish our products, services, and platform as the industry standard in construction, both domestically and internationally. The key elements of our strategy to accomplish these objectives are as follows: Maintain and advance our technology leadership. We believe that the investments we have made in research and development to build our technology have been core differentiators of our products and platform. We plan to continue to invest in technology innovation, product development, and platform capabilities. Acquire new customers. We believe the market for construction technology and collaboration tools is in its early phases of adoption. We plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts to drive awareness of our products, services, and platform, and grow our customer base, focusing on owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors. The portion of our current user base made up of collaborators invited to participate in our customers projects represents a significant opportunity to increase our revenue. These users are incentivized to become customers in order to gain visibility and control across their projects with actionable insights from a single system. In the future, we have the potential to monetize additional adjacent stakeholders, including a broad set of industry participants who are potential customers of our existing products and services and those whom we plan to address with targeted new products and services over time. Such new products and services may allow us to attract new customers as well as expand existing customer relationships. Increase and diversify spend within our existing customer base. We plan to drive additional spend from existing customers by upselling construction volume, cross-selling additional existing products and services, and offering new products and services that address additional customer needs. Expand internationally. We believe there is a global need for construction management software and that the global market is currently underpenetrated, representing a significant opportunity. We plan to hire sales and customer experience teams and expand our presence in certain countries where we already operate, as well as pursue a presence in new geographies. Extend our industry connectivity and our position as a trusted brand. We believe there are powerful network effects to our business, and to capitalize on these effects we intend to focus on driving higher engagement with customers, collaborators, and the broader construction community. We will continue to invest in expanding our ecosystem, developing new partnerships, and supporting more integrations. In addition, we plan to continue to invest in growing our brand and expanding on our key community and user initiatives. Pursue targeted acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy primarily focuses on accelerating our product roadmap through tuck-in acquisitions of smaller companies, some of which are from our App Marketplace and already integrated with the Procore platform. We have made, and may in the future make, select acquisitions to add innovative features and functionality to our platform, accelerate our end-to-end cloud-based platform strategy, and bring talent to our team. Our App Marketplace provides us with visibility into our customers interactions with many third-party integrations and provides a pipeline for potential future acquisitions. For example, we acquired Intelliwave Technologies Inc. (Intelliwave), a construction materials management company, in 2024, and Unearth Technologies, Inc. (Unearth), a geographic information systems asset management platform, in 2023, both of which were existing App Marketplace partners. Our existing integrations with App Marketplace partners like these streamline the integration of their solutions into our platform post-acquisition and allow us to quickly deliver a seamless customer experience across our platform. Sales and Marketing We primarily sell subscriptions to access our products through our direct sales team, which is specialized by geography, followed by size and type of stakeholder, and is serviced regionally by offices in the U.S., Canada, Australia, England, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Ireland. As a result of our international efforts, we support multiple languages and currencies. In July 2024 we began to evolve our GTM operating model by, among other things, transitioning to a general manager model, with general managers for our North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Middle East 11 Table of Contents regions and our public sector business, each of whom is empowered to assess and deploy the appropriate strategies and tactics for customers within their respective regions. We are also adding new product and technical specialists to our GTM teams, who we believe can add value for our customers by matching the evolving needs of our customers diverse buyer personas with our products and services, and helping our customers understand and implement the full potential of our platform. We believe that these investments will allow us to build stronger and deeper customer relationships and improve our operating efficiency over time which, in turn, will result in better customer experiences and provide additional value to our customers, some of whom continue to face macroeconomic and other pressures that have negatively impacted their spending decisions. Our construction volume-based pricing model and number of product offerings create multiple opportunities for expansion. We focus our marketing efforts on product innovation and value, domain expertise, and community-building. We reach potential customers and generate leads for our sales team through a combination of content marketing, public relations, advertising, sponsorships, digital marketing, partner marketing, social media, community initiatives, and events. We deliver multi-touch marketing efforts across all stages of the customer journey, from awareness and consideration to purchase, retention, and advocacy. Marketing activities are connected to our sales pipeline, resulting in product demonstration requests and sales opportunities. As a key part of our brand-building efforts, we host industry events. Our engagement with these leading industry events affords us the ability to connect directly with our customers, collaborators, and the broader construction industry. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the development and delivery of new features and products for our platform, and the continued improvement, maintenance, and support of our existing products, platform, and cloud infrastructure. We leverage our broad customer base, our engaged user communities, and our focus on user-driven innovation to aggregate feedback on features and functionality and consistently improve our products and platform. Our teams partner with our customers and collaborators to understand their needs through focus groups at our innovation labs, trade shows, and conferences, and with customers and collaborators on the jobsite. Our Competition The market for construction management software is competitive and rapidly evolving. We believe the market is in its early phases of maturity and technology adoption as many companies in the construction industry still rely on a combination of rudimentary workflows, including manual paper-based methods, email, fax, and spreadsheet-based processes. Where incumbent technology has been adopted, it has generally had a limited impact because of a lack of modern, cloud-based tools, limited breadth and depth of functionality, or a lack of integrations between point solutions. We believe our competitors primarily exist across the following four categories: aggregated construction management tools, including products offered by various software companies that serve multiple industries and buyers. Some of these companies products integrate with our platform and are available in our App Marketplace. accounting software vendors, including providers that offer accounting software and supplement their solutions with project management tools and other offerings, which are often bundled with their accounting solutions as lower-value add-ons. point solution vendors in various categories, including analytics, bidding, BIM, compliance, and scheduling, among others. Many of the point solutions these vendors provide integrate with our platform and are available in our App Marketplace. in-house specialized tools or processes built by or for existing or prospective customers. 12 Table of Contents Our Employees and Human Capital Resources People are our most vital asset in building and growing our business. We are also proud to have been able to maintain our culture as our business has grown, which is based on three core values: openness, ownership, and optimism. We believe that these three core values are foundational to building a high-performing, engaged organization where our employees feel empowered to deliver exceptional results while growing their careers. We believe that having a strong culture is integral to our ability to attract and retain exceptionally talented and motivated employees. We invest in our employees and provide a broad range of benefits and well-being and development offerings to help them grow and thrive. Our compensation and benefits offerings are competitively designed to attract, reward, and retain talented individuals to drive our business forward. We evaluate these offerings on a regular basis, adjusting as needed. As of December 31, 2024, we had 4,203 full-time employees, with 3,221 based in the U.S. and 982 based in our international locations. Our Intellectual Property We rely on trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, intellectual property assignment agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, and employee invention assignment agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2024, we had 80 issued patents in the U.S. and 93 pending patent applications in the U.S. Additionally, we had 3 issued patents in foreign countries, 28 pending patent applications in foreign countries, as well as 6 pending international patent applications that preserve our right to file additional foreign patent applications in the future, as of such date. Our issued patents in the U.S. will expire between 2034 and 2043. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We have trademark rights in our name, our logo, and other brand indicia, and have trademark registrations for select marks in the U.S. and many other jurisdictions around the world. We also have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. For additional information, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Intellectual PropertyOur failure to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information could diminish our brand and other intangible assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Government Regulations We are, and may become, subject to a number of U.S. federal and state, as well as numerous foreign, laws and regulations that involve matters important to our business, including in connection with our pursuit of Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) authorization. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had, and is currently not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods. Nevertheless, because global laws and regulations have continued to develop and evolve rapidly, it is possible that we may not be, or may not have been, compliant with each such applicable law or regulation, and any noncompliance could have a material impact on our business in subsequent periods. For a discussion of risks related to these various areas of government regulation, see Risk FactorsOur business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects and Risk FactorsIncreased government scrutiny of the technology industry generally, or our operations specifically, could negatively affect our business." 13 Table of Contents Corporate Information We were incorporated as Butterfly Lane, Inc. in California in January 2002, and changed our name to Procore Technologies, Inc. in May 2002. We reincorporated in Delaware in June 2014. Our principal executive offices are located at 6309 Carpinteria Avenue, Carpinteria, CA 93013. Our telephone number is (866) 477-6267. Our website address is https://www.procore.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference herein, and you should not consider information on our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge through the investor relations section of our website (investors.procore.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We announce material information to the public about us, our products and services and other matters through a variety of means, including our website, the investor relations section of our website, press releases, filings with the SEC, and public conference calls, in order to achieve broad distribution of information to the public. We encourage investors and others to review the information we make public in these locations, as such information could be deemed to be material information. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of such future risks or any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have experienced rapid growth in prior periods, and such growth may not be indicative of our future performance. If we fail to properly manage future growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in prior periods. Our revenue was $1,151.7 million in 2024, $950.0 million in 2023, and $720.2 million in 2022. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior period as an indication of our future performance. While our revenue has continued to increase, our revenue growth rate has declined and may continue to decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including our ability to effectively manage our growth and investments (including through the evolution of our GTM operating model), macroeconomic conditions, and the maturation of our business. Our overall revenue growth and results of operations depend on a number of factors, including many that are out of our control. These factors include our ability to do the following: attract new customers and retain and expand sales of subscriptions to our existing customers; increase sales to owners and specialty contractors, as well as monetize new stakeholders; develop new products and services, further improve our existing products, services, and platform, and expand our App Marketplace with additional integrations; provide our customers and collaborators with support that meets their needs; invest financial and operational resources to support future growth in our customer, collaborator, and third-party relationships; expand our operations domestically and internationally; and retain and motivate existing personnel, and attract, integrate, and retain new personnel, particularly with respect to our sales and marketing and engineering and product development teams. Our future growth also depends on changes in our customers IT budgets, the timing and success of new products and services introduced by us or our competitors, the pace of development of the construction management software industry, regulatory and macroeconomic conditions, and economic conditions and business practices within the construction industry, including construction spending in the public and private sectors. The overall sentiment in the construction industry continues to be uncertain, which presents challenges to our future growth. We expect this sentiment to continue at least for the short term as a result of macroeconomic factors. If we are not able to maintain revenue growth or accurately forecast future growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $106.0 million in 2024, $189.7 million in 2023, and $286.9 million in 2022. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.2 billion. We are not certain whether or when we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We also expect our expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in growth, which could negatively affect our future results of operations if our revenue does not correspondingly increase. In particular, we intend to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on the following: expanding our sales and marketing and customer success teams, including as part of evolving our GTM operating model, to drive new subscriptions, increase the use of our products, services, and platform by existing customers, and support our international growth; developing our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, scalability, availability, performance, and data security and privacy; investing in our engineering and product development teams and developing new products, services, and platform functionality; and pursuing strategic acquisition and investment opportunities. 15 Table of Contents These expenditures may not result in increased revenue or profitable growth. Any failure to increase our revenue as we invest in our business, or to manage our costs, could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flow. We may also incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business has been, and may continue to be, significantly impacted by changes in the economy, in spending across the construction industry, and in the size and growth of our addressable market. Our business has been, and may continue to be, affected by changes in the economy, especially those affecting the construction industry. The overall sentiment in the construction industry continues to be uncertain, which presents challenges to our future growth. We expect this sentiment to continue at least for the short term as a result of macroeconomic factors. If the construction industry experiences a decrease in overall construction volume, the amount our customers pay for our products could be reduced as we generally price our products based on a customers annual construction volume, which is the fixed aggregate dollar volume of construction work contracted to run on our platform annually. In times of unfavorable economic conditions, our revenue may decrease because customers may choose to purchase less construction software. Rising inflation may increase our vendor, employee, and facility costs, and further decrease demand for our products. Unfavorable or deteriorating market conditions, reductions in the rate of construction growth, reductions in government spending and funding of infrastructure or other construction projects, reduced demand for public projects, and any resulting effects on spending by our customers or prospective customers could also have an adverse impact on our business. The construction industry is also cyclical and has experienced periods of economic expansion and contraction. Periods of economic contraction for the construction industry have been, and may continue to be, caused by a wide range of factors, including tightening of economic policies, financial and credit market fluctuations, tariffs on imported goods, weakening exchange rates, elevated inflation, interest rate increases and fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, commodity prices, and policies that reduce government spending. We cannot accurately predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry, or how any such event may impact our business or the business of our customers. To the extent we do not effectively address these risks and challenges, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Further, our addressable market size estimates and market growth forecasts for the construction industry are based on assumptions, estimates, and third-party data that may be inaccurate. The size of our total addressable market depends on a number of factors, including the economic factors mentioned above, digitization of the construction industry globally, customer demand among existing and new customers, construction volume, and overall IT spending, among many others. Even if our estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of our total addressable market are accurate, we may not be able to capture enough of that growth and our business may not grow in those markets at the rates we anticipate, if at all, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The construction management software industry is evolving rapidly and may not develop in ways we expect. If we fail to respond adequately to changes in the industry, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. The construction management software industry is evolving rapidly. Widespread acceptance and use of construction management technology in general, and of our platform in particular, is critical to our future growth. While we believe that our construction management software addresses a significant market opportunity, demand for our products, services, and platform may develop more slowly than we expect. If that happens, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Demand for construction management software in general, and for our products, services, and platform in particular, is affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of these factors include: general awareness of construction management software; availability, functionality, and pricing and packaging of products and services that compete with ours; ease of adoption and use; the reliability, performance, or perceived performance of our products and platform, including interruptions to the use of our 16 Table of Contents products and platform; and the development and awareness of our brand. Even though we use internal data to assess the likelihood of success of introducing new products and services or changes to existing products and services, we may incorrectly calculate such risks or assume undue risks with respect to such products. Competitors may also develop and introduce new products or entirely new technologies to replace our existing products, including through the use of AI, which could make our platform obsolete or otherwise adversely affect our business. If our investments in engineering and product development do not accurately anticipate user demand or if we fail to develop our products, features, or capabilities in a manner that satisfies customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to retain our existing customers or increase demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Furthermore, our ability to grow our customer base and retain and increase revenue from customers depends on our ability to enhance and improve our products, services, and platform in response to changes in the construction management software industry and customer demand. In response to such shifts, we may introduce changes to our existing products and services or introduce new products and services, which may require significant expenditures in research and development and customer support, which may harm our results of operations. While we have designed our existing products for easy adoption, our customers depend on our customer success teams to provide implementation, training, and support services, especially when it comes to new products and features. If we do not provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products to existing and prospective customers could be adversely affected. As part of the evolution of our GTM operating model, we are introducing new technical roles to help our customers realize the full value of our platform and thereby create deeper relationships with our customers. If these investments do not result in increased revenue from both new and existing customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we may experience difficulties with software development, design, or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new products, features, or capabilities. We have in the past experienced delays in our internally planned release dates of new products, features, and capabilities, and there can be no assurance that new products, features, or capabilities will be released according to schedule. Any delays could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue or market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could harm our business. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to retain and expand our customer base, attract investors, and recruit and retain qualified personnel may be impaired, and our business may be harmed. We believe that our brand identity and brand awareness are critical to our sales and marketing efforts. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to retaining and expanding our customer base, attracting investors, and recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, and, in particular, conveying to customers and collaborators that our platform offers capabilities that address the needs of the construction ecosystem throughout the project lifecycle. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. If we experience difficulties with software development, customer service or professional services that negatively impact new or existing products, we may experience negative publicity or lose market acceptance. In July 2024, we began to evolve our GTM operating model by, among other things, transitioning to a general manager model. As a part of this process, we are hiring new product and technical specialists into our GTM teams. While we believe this transition will result in a more effective GTM organization, we have seen and may continue to see some disruptions and adverse impacts to our financial and operating results in the near-term as we invest in and implement the evolved GTM operating model. If we fail to successfully implement the evolved GTM operating model, our ability to serve our customers and effectively address their concerns will be adversely impacted, which may result in unfavorable publicity or a negative perception of our products, services, or platform. Any unfavorable publicity or negative perception of our products, services, or platform or the providers of construction management software generally, could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur increased expenses in this effort, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Companies are also facing increasing scrutiny related to their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices and reporting as new laws and regulations relating to ESG matters are under consideration or being adopted, and as new norms emerge with regard to ESG reporting and initiatives. Regardless of whether such claims are accurate, negative claims or publicity involving us in relation to ESG topics could damage our reputation, brand image, and ultimately impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our ability to increase our customer base, expand existing customers' use of our platform, and achieve broader market acceptance of our products, services, and platform will significantly depend on our ability to develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, including through the evolution of our GTM operating model. Any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Continuing and increasing sales of our products and services depends to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, including through the evolution of our GTM operating model. It is difficult to predict customer demand, customer retention, and expansion rates, the size and growth rate of the market, the entry of competitive products and services, or the success of existing competitive products and services. Our sales efforts involve educating prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products, services, and platform. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will result in a sale. We expect that we will continue to need intensive sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our construction management software and services, and we may have difficulty convincing prospective customers of the value of adopting our products and services. We plan to continue expanding our sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying, recruiting, and training qualified sales representatives is time-consuming and resource-intensive, and they may not be fully trained and productive for a significant amount of time following their hiring, if ever. In addition, the cost to acquire customers is high due to these considerable sales and marketing efforts. Our business will be harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. Even if we are successful in convincing prospective customers of the value of our products and services, they may decide not to purchase our products and services for a variety of reasons, some of which are out of our control. The failure of our efforts to secure sales after investing resources in a lengthy sales process could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions and adverse impacts to our financial and operating results as we continue to invest in and implement our evolved GTM operating model, and any failure to manage such disruptions and adverse impacts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, headwinds with respect to our sales productivity. These headwinds have resulted in a decline in revenue growth and current remaining performance obligations (cRPO) growth. In July 2024, we began to evolve our GTM operating model, by, among other things, transitioning to a general manager model, in order to deepen customer relationships and improve our operating efficiency by building nimble customer-focused teams under empowered general managers. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions and adverse impacts to our financial and operating results in the near-term as we continue to invest in and implement our evolved GTM operating model. It is difficult to predict whether these changes will achieve their desired effects, and there is no guarantee we will achieve the growth or operational improvements and efficiencies that we are anticipating as a result of our GTM operating model evolution. Further, even if we do achieve such growth or efficiencies, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to increase productivity under the evolved GTM operating model once it is in place. Implementing any operating model change presents additional potential risks including, among others, customer and partner confusion as their account teams are updated, diversion of managements attention from core ongoing business activities, and failure to onboard and ramp new hires efficiently or at all. If we are unable to manage the resulting short-term adverse impacts to our business, fail to successfully implement, or realize the full benefits of, our evolved GTM operating model over the long term, or otherwise fail to acquire new customers, retain existing customers, or expand existing customers use of our products, services, and platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions to access our products over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in new business will not be immediately reflected in our results of operations. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products. We recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription, beginning on the date that access to our products is made available to our customer. Our subscriptions generally have annual or multi-year terms. As a result, the significant majority of our revenue is generated from subscriptions entered into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not significantly reduce our revenue for that quarter, but could negatively affect our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of downturns or upturns in new sales and potential changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through new subscriptions in any period. Our ability to recognize revenue may also be affected by the length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for our products, especially with respect to larger enterprises, owners, and governmental entities. Such customers typically undertake a significant evaluation and negotiation process due to their leverage, size, organizational structure, and regulatory and approval requirements, all of which can lengthen our sales cycle. Further, certain macroeconomic conditions or uncertainty related to the macroeconomic environment may cause such customers to take corresponding actions to manage costs, which can increase the length of sales cycles, reduce budgets, cause slowdowns in customer consumption, or cause customers to reduce their spend with us at renewal by running less construction volume on our platform, reducing the number of products purchased, or cancelling their subscriptions entirely. We may spend substantial time, effort, and money on sales efforts for such customers without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales or that these customers will deploy our platform widely enough across their business to justify our substantial upfront investment. As a result, we anticipate increased sales to large enterprises, owners, and governmental entities will lead to higher upfront sales costs and greater unpredictability, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. In addition, as required by the revenue recognition standard under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we disclose the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations (RPO). It is possible that analysts and investors could misinterpret our disclosure or that the terms of our customer subscriptions or other circumstances could cause our methods for calculating this disclosure to differ significantly from others, which could lead to inaccurate or unfavorable forecasts by analysts and investors that could negatively impact our business and prospects. We are continuing to expand our operations outside the U.S., where we may be subject to increased business, regulatory, and economic risks (including fluctuations in currency exchange rates) that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We had customers running projects in approximately 150 countries as of December 31, 2024, and 15% of our revenue in 2024 was generated from customers outside the U.S. We expect to continue to expand our international presence, which may include opening offices in new jurisdictions and providing our products, services, and platform in additional languages. Any new markets or countries into which we attempt to sell our products or services may not be receptive to our efforts. For example, we may not be able to further expand our operations in some countries if we are not able to adapt our products, services, and platform to fit the needs of prospective customers in those countries or if we are unable to satisfy certain government- and industry-specific laws or regulations. In addition, our international operations and expansion efforts require considerable management attention and the investment of significant resources, while subjecting us to new risks and increasing certain risks that we already face, including risks associated with: providing our products, services, and platform in different languages and customizing them to support local requirements; compliance by us and our partners with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to anti-corruption, competition, import and export controls, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions, employment, construction, privacy, data protection and sovereignty, consumer protection, and unsolicited email, and the risk of penalties and fines against us and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; 19 Table of Contents recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the U.S., including employees who speak multiple languages and come from a wide variety of different cultural backgrounds and customs, and managing an employee base in jurisdictions with differing employment regulations; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. and navigating the practical enforcement of such intellectual property rights outside of the U.S.; political and economic instability, including as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Hamas war, and a shifting and uncertain geopolitical landscape; generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, tax, travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs, and costs associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our global operations substantially increases our cost of doing business. We may be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations as they occur, and there can be no assurance that we, our employees, contractors, partners, and agents will be able to maintain compliance. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions, or reputational harm. If we are unable to maintain compliance or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, we may need to relocate or cease operations in certain foreign jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Additionally, as we continue to expand our international operations, we will become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although the majority of our cash generated from sales is denominated in U.S. Dollars, a small amount is denominated in foreign currencies, and our expenses are generally denominated in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our operations. Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars but report our results of operations in U.S. Dollars, we also face remeasurement exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Any of these risks could hinder our ability to predict our future results and earnings. In addition, we do not currently maintain a program to hedge exposures to non-U.S. Dollar currencies. We operate in a competitive market, and we must continue to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Certain features of our current platform compete with a wide variety of products, including aggregated construction management tools (some of which integrate with our platform), accounting software vendors, point solution vendors in various categories (many of which integrate with our platform and are available in our App Marketplace), and in-house specialized tools or processes built by or for existing or prospective customers. With the introduction of new products, services, and technologies by competitors, including through the use of AI, and the emergence of new market entrants in the construction management software industry, we expect competition to continue and intensify. Other companies may incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, such as better name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, existing or more established relationships, greater third-party integrations, access to larger customer bases, greater financial, technical, pricing, packaging, and marketing strategies, and other resources. Some of our competitors may make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships with third parties to offer a broader range of products and services than we do; others may have more effective sales and marketing strategies or may deploy those strategies in ways that enable them to acquire customers at a lower cost than we can. These combinations may make it more difficult for us to effectively compete. Our market and the technology landscape in general will also be impacted by the continued adoption of AI in ways that are currently unforeseeable and that could have significant benefits for our competitors. Additionally, as we introduce new products and services in the market, we may face new or different competitors who may similarly have competitive advantages over us. Such competitive pressures may erode our market share and may hinder or slow our expansion into new markets. We expect these competitive dynamics to continue as competitors attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. 20 Table of Contents Many factors affect our pricing and packaging strategies, which we revisit from time to time. For example, the quality of our products and services allows us to sell them at a premium as compared to some of our competitors. Certain competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or free products or services that compete with our products or may bundle and offer a broader range of products or services. We may not be able to compete at such lower price points or with such product configurations. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives or other discounts, or to increase our marketing and other expenses, in order to attract and retain customers in response to competitive pressures, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Interruptions or performance issues associated with or otherwise impacting our products, services, and platform, including the interoperability of our platform across devices, operating systems, and third-party applications, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service interruptions and other performance issues. Our future growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and prospective customers to rely on access to our products, services, and platform. Increasing numbers of users on our platform and increasing bandwidth requirements may degrade the performance of our products or platform due to capacity constraints and other internet infrastructure limitations. Frequent or persistent interruptions, including those from increased usage, could cause existing or prospective users to believe that our platform is unreliable, leading them to switch to competitors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Certain of our customer agreements contain specifications regarding the availability and performance of our platform. If we are unable to meet these service level commitments or if we suffer extended periods of poor performance, we may be contractually obligated to provide affected customers with service credits against existing subscriptions or, in certain cases, refunds. Any such performance issues could negatively impact our renewal rates and harm our ability to attract new customers. One of the most important features of our platform is its broad interoperability with a range of devices, web browsers, operating systems, and integrations. Accessibility across this range is oftentimes out of our control, including as a result of reliance on third-party service providers or applications. For example, in July 2024, a software update by a cybersecurity technology company caused widespread crashes of Windows systems into which it was integrated around the globe, including certain Windows systems that were used by a limited number of our employees and may have been used by our third-party service providers, vendors, and customers. Even though we did not deem the crashes to be a material cybersecurity incident, in the future, we may be impacted by similar third-party software-induced interruptions to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Integrations and products are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to modify our platform to assure its compatibility with such developments. In addition, some competitors may be able to disrupt the compatibility of our platform with their integrations, which some of our customers may rely upon. In other instances, the operability of our platform features relies on third-party service providers or partners that may be unable to accommodate our evolving service needs, choose to terminate or decline to renew agreements with us, or demand more favorable terms, among other things, any of which may cause service changes, interruptions, or delays for our customers. If our platform has operability or interoperability challenges with any of our integrations, customers may not adopt our platform, and our App Marketplace may not be useful to customers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In certain limited applications or situations, we use AI (including generative AI) in our products, services, and business operations. AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect our business operations and our customers adoption and use of our products. Moreover, AI models may create flawed, incomplete, or inaccurate outputs, some of which may appear to be correct. This may happen if the inputs that an AI model relied on were inaccurate, incomplete, or flawed (including if a bad actor poisons an AI model with bad inputs or logic), or if the logic of the AI model is flawed (a so-called hallucination). We, our customers, or other third parties may rely on or use such outputs to our or their detriment, or it may lead to 21 Table of Contents adverse outcomes, which may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers and expose us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, and/or legal liability. Additionally, our products, services, and platform are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when new products or features are released. We have in the past found defects or errors in our products, services, and platform, and we may detect new defects or errors in the future. Any real or perceived failures or vulnerabilities in our products, services, or platform, or any real or perceived delay in resolving them, could result in negative publicity or lead to data security, access, retention, or performance issues. In addition, the costs incurred in correcting such defects or errors may be substantial. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We rely on third-party data centers, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), to host and operate our platform, and any disruption of or interference with these resources may negatively affect our ability to maintain the performance and reliability of our platform, which could cause our business to suffer. Our customers depend on the continuous availability of our platform, which relies in large part on third-party data centers. We currently host our platform and serve our customers primarily using AWS. Consequently, we may be subject to service disruptions as well as failures to provide adequate support for reasons that are outside of our control, including: the performance and availability of AWS and other third-party providers of cloud infrastructure services with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security for providing reliable services; decisions by AWS and other owners and operators of the data centers where our cloud infrastructure is deployed to terminate our subscriptions, discontinue services to us, shut down operations or facilities, increase prices, change service levels, limit bandwidth, declare bankruptcy, or prioritize the traffic of other parties; and cyberattacks, including denial of service attacks, targeted at us, our data centers, or the infrastructure of the internet. The adverse effects of any service interruptions on our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition may be disproportionately heightened due to the nature of our business and the fact that our customers have a low tolerance for interruptions of any duration. To meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue to make significant investments to increase capacity and to develop and implement new technologies in our cloud infrastructure operations. Any renegotiation or renewal of our agreement with AWS, or a new agreement with another provider of cloud-based services, may be on terms that are significantly less favorable to us than our current agreement. Additionally, these new technologies, which include databases, application and server optimizations, network strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new, and untested, and we may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. It takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop, and test improvements to our technologies and cloud infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our infrastructure to meet the needs of our growing customer base and maintain performance as our customers expand their use of our products, or if our cloud-based server costs were to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Employees and Culture If we lose key management personnel or if we are unable to retain or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our strategic objectives and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate the members of our management team and other key personnel throughout our organization. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Craig F. Courtemanche, Jr., our founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer, who is critical to our ability to achieve our vision and strategic priorities. We rely on our management team in the areas of operations, security, research and development, sales and marketing, support, and general and administrative functions. Our U.S. employees, including our executive officers, work for us on an at-will basis, which means they may terminate their employment with us at any time. If Mr. Courtemanche or one or more of our key personnel 22 Table of Contents or members of our management team resign or otherwise cease to provide us with their services, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our continued success is also dependent on our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel possessing a broad range of skills and expertise. There is significant competition for personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. To continue to enhance our products, services, and platform, develop new products and services, and add new and innovative functionality, it will be critical for us to continue to grow our research and development teams. We have in the past hired, and may in the future hire, employees from competitors or other companies. Their former employers have in the past, and may in the future, assert that we or these employees have breached such employees legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. If we fail to meet our hiring needs, at all or on the timeframes we expect, including in connection with the evolution of our GTM operating model, or if we fail to successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity, and retention could all suffer. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion, and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success. We believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, teamwork, passion, and focus on execution and has contributed to our success. As we grow, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture. In addition, many of our employees work remotely and there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain our corporate culture when much of our team is dispersed. Any failure to preserve our culture could harm our future success, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, innovate and operate effectively, and execute on our business strategies. In addition, in the past we have carried out, and we may in the future carry out, reductions in our workforce to ensure that our resources are aligned to our business strategy. Such reductions in our workforce could negatively impact our reputation as an employer and harm our company culture. If we experience any of these risks, our ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees could be impaired, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Risks Related to Our Regulatory and Legal Environment We and the third parties with which we work are subject to stringent, changing, and potentially inconsistent laws, regulations, rules, policies, and obligations related to data privacy and security, both domestically and internationally. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations, or the failure or perceived failure of third parties with which we work to comply with such obligations, could lead to regulatory investigations or actions, litigation, fines and penalties, disruptions of our business operations, reputational harm, loss of revenue or profits, loss of customers or sales, and other adverse consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, receive, store, generate, use, transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, transmit, and share (collectively, process) proprietary, confidential, and sensitive information and data, including personal data, intellectual property, trade secrets, and sensitive third-party and customer data (collectively, sensitive information). For example, our customers store sensitive information on our platform, such as building plans and other information related to government works or projects for regulated industries, such as banks and healthcare facilities. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, regulations, guidance, industry standards, internal and external privacy and security policies, contracts (including with our customers and other third parties), and other obligations relating to data privacy and security. In the U.S., federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act), and other similar laws (e.g., wiretapping laws). Numerous U.S. states, including California, have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. As applicable, such rights may include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights may impact our 23 Table of Contents business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (collectively, the CCPA), applies to personal data of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of California residents to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for administrative fines and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures related to the use of AI in products and services. Moreover, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we may be required to obtain certain consents to process personal data. Our data processing practices are subject to increased challenges by class action plaintiffs. Our inability or failure to obtain consent for these practices could result in adverse consequences, including class action litigation and mass arbitration demands. Additional data privacy and security laws have also been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels in recent years, which could further complicate compliance efforts. As we continue to expand globally, our obligations related to data protection will increase. Outside the U.S., an increasing number of laws, regulations, and industry standards apply to data privacy and security. For example, the European Unions (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (the EUs GDPR) and the United Kingdoms (U.K.) General Data Protection Regulation (the U.K.s GDPR) impose strict requirements for processing personal data. Under the EUs GDPR, government regulators may impose temporary or definitive bans on data processing, as well as fines of up to 20 million euros or 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater, for certain violations. Similarly, under the U.K.s GDPR, government regulators may impose fines of up to 17.5 million pounds sterling or 4% of annual global turnover, whichever is greater, for certain violations. The application of the EUs GDPR alongside the U.K.s GDPR exposes us to two parallel regimes, each of which potentially authorizes similar fines and other potentially divergent enforcement actions for certain violations. In addition, data subject or consumer protection organizations (which are authorized by law to represent data subjects' interests) may initiate litigation to represent their interests. There are also stringent local data protection requirements in Germany and cloud-server initiatives in France which may impact our operations in these countries. Furthermore, as our business continues to expand and evolve, the EUs GDPR, the U.K.s GDPR, and similar data protection regulations may apply additional obligations on us to further secure personal data, provide further rights to data subjects, and require additional reporting to regulators. In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and various related provincial laws, as well as Canadas Anti-Spam Legislation, applies to our operations, as does Australias Privacy Act 1988. We also have operations in Singapore and the UAE, which means that we may be subject to Singapores Personal Data Protection Act and the UAEs Federal Data Protection Law No. 45 of 2021, respectively. In addition, Brazils General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Proteo de Dados Pessoais) (Law No. 13,709/2018), which applies to our operations, broadly regulates processing personal data of individuals in Brazil and imposes compliance obligations and penalties comparable to those of the EUs GDPR. Indias new privacy legislation, the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, may also apply to our operations. Several jurisdictions around the globe, including Europe and certain U.S. states, have proposed, enacted, or are considering laws governing AI, including the EUs AI Act, and we expect other jurisdictions will adopt similar laws. Additionally, certain privacy laws extend rights to consumers (such as the right to delete certain personal data) and regulate automated decision-making, which may complicate our use of AI, lead to regulatory fines or penalties, be incompatible with our use of AI, require us to change our business practices, retrain our AI, or prevent our use of AI. For example, the Federal Trade Commission has required other companies to turn over or disgorge valuable insights or trainings generated through the use of AI where they allege the company has violated privacy and consumer protection laws. Our use of this technology could also result in additional compliance costs, regulatory investigations and actions, and consumer lawsuits. In the ordinary course of business, we transfer personal data from Europe and other jurisdictions to the U.S. or other countries. Europe and other jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring data to be localized or limiting the transfer of personal data to other countries. In particular, the European Economic Area (EEA) and the U.K. have significantly restricted the transfer of personal data to the U.S. and other countries whose privacy laws it generally believes are inadequate. Other jurisdictions may adopt or have already adopted similarly 24 Table of Contents stringent data localization and cross-border data transfer laws. Although there are currently various mechanisms that may be used to transfer personal data from the EEA and the U.K. to the U.S. in compliance with law, such as the EEA and U.K.s standard contractual clauses, the U.K.s International Data Transfer Agreement / Addendum, and the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (which allows for transfers of personal data to relevant U.S.-based organizations that participate in and self-certify compliance with the framework), these mechanisms are subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the U.S. If there is no lawful manner for us to transfer personal data from the EEA, the U.K., or other jurisdictions to the U.S., or if the requirements for a legally-compliant transfer are too onerous, we could face significant adverse consequences, including the interruption or degradation of our operations, the need to relocate part or all of our business or data processing activities to other jurisdictions at significant expense, increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines and penalties, the inability to transfer data and work with partners, vendors, and other third parties, and injunctions against our processing or transferring of personal data necessary to operate our business. Additionally, companies that transfer personal data out of the EEA and the U.K. to other jurisdictions, particularly to the U.S., are subject to increased scrutiny from regulators, individual litigants, and activist groups. Some European regulators have ordered certain companies to suspend or permanently cease certain transfers out of Europe for allegedly violating the cross-border data transfer limitations of the EUs GDPR. For example, in May 2023, the Irish Data Protection Commission determined that a major social media companys use of standard contractual clauses to transfer personal data from Europe to the U.S. was insufficient and levied a 1.2 billion euro fine against the company and prohibited it from transferring personal data to the U.S. We are bound by contractual obligations and laws related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations and laws may not be successful. For example, certain privacy laws, such as the EUs GDPR, the U.K.s GDPR, and the CCPA, require our customers to impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. We also publish privacy policies, marketing materials, white papers, and other statements, such as compliance with certain certifications, standards, or self-regulatory principles, concerning data privacy, security, and AI. Regulators in the U.S. are increasingly scrutinizing these statements, and if any of these policies, materials, or statements are found by our customers or regulators to be overly broad, deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators, or other adverse consequences. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have proposed, and may further propose, standards with which we are legally or contractually bound to comply. For example, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (the PCI DSS). The PCI DSS requires companies to adopt certain measures to ensure the security of cardholder information, including using and maintaining firewalls, adopting proper password protections for certain devices and software, and restricting data access. Noncompliance with the PCI DSS can result in penalties ranging from $5,000 to $100,000 per month by credit card companies, litigation, damage to our reputation, and loss of revenue. We also rely on vendors to process payment card data who may also be subject to the PCI DSS, and our business may be negatively impacted if our vendors are fined or suffer other consequences as a result of noncompliance with the PCI DSS. Our obligations related to data privacy and security (and consumers data privacy and security expectations) are quickly changing in an increasingly stringent fashion, creating some uncertainty as to the effect of future legal frameworks. Additionally, these obligations may be subject to differing applications and interpretations, which may be inconsistent or conflict among jurisdictions. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires significant resources and may necessitate changes to our IT, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf. In addition, these obligations may require us to change our business practices. Although we endeavor to comply with all applicable data privacy and security obligations, we may at times fail, or be perceived to have failed, to do so. Moreover, despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties with which we work, such as vendors or developers, may fail to comply with such obligations, which could negatively impact our business operations and compliance posture. For example, any failure by a third-party processor to comply with applicable law, regulations, or contractual obligations could result in adverse consequences for us, including our inability to, or interruption in our ability to, operate our business and proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. 25 Table of Contents If we or the third parties on which we rely fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences, including, but not limited to, government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, audits, inspections, fines, and penalties), litigation (including class-related claims), additional reporting requirements and oversight, restrictions or bans on processing personal data, orders to destroy or not use personal data, the imprisonment of company officials, the inability to operate in certain jurisdictions, limited ability to develop or commercialize our products and services, loss of revenue or profits, loss of customers or sales (including a decline in customer subscription renewals), interruptions or stoppages in or modifications to our operations, negative publicity (including public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others), and reputational harm, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If our IT systems or data, or those of third parties with which we work, are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences resulting from such compromise, including, but not limited to, regulatory investigations or actions, litigation, fines and penalties, disruptions of our business operations, reputational harm, loss of revenue or profits, loss of customers or sales, and other adverse consequences, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In the ordinary course of our business, we, and the third parties with which we work, process substantial amounts of sensitive information. Cyberattacks, malicious internet-based activity, online and offline fraud, and other similar activities threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of such sensitive information and IT systems, and those of the third parties on which we rely. Cloud-based platform providers of products and services have been targeted by such activities and are expected to continue to be targeted. The threats posed by such activities are prevalent and continue to grow, are increasingly difficult to detect, and come from a variety of sources, including traditional computer hackers, threat actors, hacktivists, organized criminal threat actors, personnel (such as through theft or misuse), sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors. Some actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyberattacks including, without limitation, nation-states and nation-state-supported actors for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we, the third parties with which we work, and our customers may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyberattacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell, and maintain the availability of our products, services, and platform. We, the third parties with which we work, and our customers are subject to a variety of evolving threats, including, but not limited to, social-engineering attacks (including through deep fakes, which may be increasingly difficult to identify as fake, and phishing attacks), malicious code (such as viruses and worms), malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), denial-of-service attacks (such as credential stuffing), credential harvesting, personnel misconduct or error, break-ins, ransomware attacks, supply chain attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other IT assets, adware, telecommunications failures, attacks enhanced or facilitated by AI, and other similar threats. Our products and services may also be subject to fraudulent usage and schemes, including from third parties accessing customer accounts or viewing data from our platform. In addition, remote work has become more common and has increased risks to our IT systems and data, as more of our employees utilize network connections, computers, and devices outside our premises or network, including working at home, while in transit, and in public locations. Severe ransomware attacks, including by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of sensitive information and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. While extortion payments have the potential to alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Any sensitive information (including confidential, competitive, proprietary, or personal data) that we input into a third-party generative AI platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including if sensitive information is used to train the third party's AI model. Additionally, where an AI model ingests personal data and makes 26 Table of Contents connections using such data, those technologies may reveal other personal or sensitive information generated by the model. We employ a shared responsibility model where our customers are responsible for using, configuring, and otherwise implementing security measures related to our products, services, and platform, and products in a manner that meets applicable cybersecurity standards, complies with laws, and addresses their information security risk. As part of this model, we make certain security features available to our customers that can be implemented at our customers' discretion, or identify security areas or measures for which our customers are responsible. For example, depending on the product implementation, our customers are responsible for adding and enforcing multi-factor authentication to access their accounts. In certain cases where our customers choose not to implement, or incorrectly implement, such features or measures, misuse our services, or otherwise experience their own vulnerabilities, policy violations, credential exposure or security incidents, even if we or our platform are not the cause of any customer security issue or incident that may result, our customer relationships, reputation, and operating results may be adversely impacted. It may be difficult and/or costly to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident. Our efforts to do so may not be successful. Actions taken by us, or the third parties with which we work, to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions of our business. Threat actors may also gain access to other networks and systems after a compromise of our networks and systems. We rely upon third-party developers, service providers, and technologies to operate critical business systems to process sensitive information in a variety of contexts, including, without limitation, third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, and other functions. We may also rely on third-party developers, service providers, and technologies to provide other products or services to operate our business. Our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. We may also share or receive sensitive information with or from third parties. If our third-party service providers experience a security incident or other interruption, we could experience adverse consequences. While we may be entitled to damages if our third-party service providers fail to satisfy their privacy or security-related obligations to us, any award may be insufficient to cover our damages or we may be unable to recover such award. In addition, supply chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our third-party partners supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our IT systems (including our products, services, and platform) or the third-party IT systems that support us and our services. While we have implemented security measures designed to help protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures are or will be effective. Although we take certain steps to detect, mitigate, and remediate various vulnerabilities in our IT systems (such as our hardware and/or software, including that of third parties with which we work, and those used to operate our products), doing so takes significant time and resources and we are not able to detect, and have not been able to remediate, all vulnerabilities in our IT systems (including those that operate our products and those that are used to provide our services). Additionally, our business depends upon the appropriate and successful implementation of our services by our customers. If our customers fail to use our service according to our specifications, our customers may suffer a security incident on their own systems or other adverse consequences. Even if such an incident is unrelated to our security practices, it could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, as well as in reputational harm. For several reasons, including the introduction of new vulnerabilities, resource constraints, competing business demands, dependence on third parties, and technological challenges, a large number of high and critical unremediated vulnerabilities exist in our IT systems and will exist until our remediation efforts are completed. We have taken, and are taking, steps designed to mitigate these vulnerabilities in a prioritized manner based on our assessment of the risk posed by such vulnerabilities. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that these vulnerability mitigation measures will be effective. Moreover, we have experienced delays 27 Table of Contents in developing and deploying remedial measures and patches designed to address any identified vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities could be exploited and result in a security incident. Any of the previously identified or similar threats could cause a security incident or other interruption. A security incident or other interruption could result in unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure of, or access to our sensitive information or IT systems, or those of the third parties with which we work (including our customers). A security incident or other interruption could disrupt our ability, and that of third parties with which we work, to provide our products, services, and platform. Our current security measures may be insufficient to prevent or deter such incidents or interruptions. We expend significant resources and have modified our business activities to try to protect against security incidents. Certain data privacy and security obligations have required us to implement and maintain security measures or industry-standard or reasonable security measures to protect our IT systems and sensitive information. In addition, business transactions, such as acquisitions or integrations, have exposed us to these same or additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Furthermore, we have discovered security issues that were not found during due diligence of such acquired or integrated entities, and it has been and may continue to be difficult to integrate companies into our IT environment and security program. Applicable data privacy and security obligations, including data breach laws and contractual obligations to various customers, may require us to notify relevant stakeholders, including affected individuals, customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents. For example, SEC rules require disclosure on Form 8-K of the material aspects of the nature, scope, and timing of any material cybersecurity incident and the material impact or reasonably likely material impact of such incident. Determining whether a cybersecurity incident is notifiable or material may not be straightforward, and any such disclosures could be costly and could lead to negative publicity, loss of customer or partner confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, diversion of managements attention, governmental investigations, and the expenditure of significant capital and other resources to respond to or alleviate problems caused by the actual or perceived security breach. If we or third parties with which we work experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we could experience significant consequences, including, but not limited to, government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, audits, inspections, fines, and penalties), litigation (including class-related claims), additional reporting requirements and oversight, restrictions or bans on processing sensitive information (including personal data and sensitive third-party and customer data), loss of revenue or profits, loss of customers or sales, interruptions or stoppages in or modifications to our operations (including availability of data), indemnification obligations, negative publicity, and reputational harm. Security incidents and attendant consequences may also cause customers to stop using our products, services, and platform (including by declining to renew their subscriptions), deter new customers from using our products, services, and platform, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. In addition, security incidents experienced by others, such as competitors or customers, may lead to widespread negative publicity for us, our customers, or the construction software industry generally. Our contracts may not contain indemnification, limitations of liability, or other protective provisions. Even where they do, there can be no assurance that indemnification clauses, limitations of liability, or other protective provisions in our contracts are applicable, enforceable, or sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. We cannot be sure that our general liability insurance coverage and coverage for cyber liability or errors or omissions will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from, or to mitigate liabilities arising out of, our data privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties may gather, collect, or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers, or other means that reveal competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine our competitive advantage. Furthermore, 28 Table of Contents sensitive information of our company or our customers could be leaked, disclosed, or revealed as a result of, or in connection with, our employees, personnels, or vendors use of generative AI technologies. Our business depends upon the appropriate and successful implementation of our products by our customers. If our customers fail to use our products according to our specifications, our customers may suffer a security incident on their own systems or other adverse consequences. Even if such an incident is unrelated to our security practices, it could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities and could result in reputational harm. To the extent we do not effectively address these risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We are subject to a number of laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally that apply generally to businesses, including laws and regulations governing the internet and the marketing, sale, and delivery of services over the internet. These laws and regulations, which continue to evolve, cover, among other things, taxation, tariffs, data protection and privacy, data security, data governance, AI, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile and other communications, advertising practices, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, consumer protection, consumer financial protection, payment regulation, payment processing and settlement services, domestic and cross-border money transmission, foreign currency exchange, anti-money laundering, fraud detection, economic and trade sanctions, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products that are offered online. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will in the future be fully compliant with such laws and regulations in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear in every jurisdiction how existing laws and regulations governing such areas apply or will be enforced. Moreover, as the regulatory landscape continues to evolve, increasing regulation and enforcement efforts by federal, state, and foreign authorities, and the prospects for private litigation claims, become more likely. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or the imposition of other legal requirements, that adversely affect our ability to market or sell our products and services could harm our ability to offer, or customer demand for, our products and services, which could impact our revenue, impair our ability to expand our products and services, and make us more vulnerable to competition. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also require us to change our business practices and raise compliance costs or other costs of doing business. For example, on May 7, 2024, the Federal Communications Commission re-adopted network neutrality rules in the U.S. These rules could affect the services we and our customers use by restricting the offerings made by internet service providers or reducing their incentives to invest in their networks. The rules were stayed pending completion of an appeal by an order of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on August 1, 2024. In addition, after a federal court judge denied a request for an injunction against Californias state-specific network neutrality law, California began enforcing that law on March 25, 2021. Other states could begin to enforce existing laws or adopt new network neutrality requirements. For example, a temporary injunction preventing implementation of a similar law in Vermont expired on April 20, 2022, although the challenge to that law remains pending and has been suspended until an appeal in another case addressing state powers to adopt internet regulation is resolved. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. The application and interpretation of these laws and regulations often are uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. Because global laws and regulations have continued to develop and evolve rapidly, it is possible that we may not be, or may not have been, compliant with each such applicable law or regulation. Additionally, various federal, state, and foreign labor laws govern our relationships with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws include employee classifications as exempt or non-exempt, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, overtime, family leave, workplace health and safety standards, payroll taxes, citizenship requirements, and other laws and regulations. In certain instances, we rely on third-party service providers or partners to facilitate certain features of our platform or products that are subject to laws and regulations that may be complex, wide-ranging, and evolving, and whose compliance practices and licensure we are unable to control. If such third parties or partners are unable to effectively manage their compliance and licensure obligations in connection with the services they 29 Table of Contents provide to us, or choose not to renew agreements with us because of the costs or burden of compliance with such obligations or for any other reason, our users may experience service changes, interruptions, or delays. Furthermore, we may be unable to find new service providers or partners, or may need to obtain replacement services on less favorable terms. For example, we rely on payment partners to facilitate payments through Procore Pay. Any claim, lawsuit, proceeding, investigation, inquiry, or request under any of the foregoing could: result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, and orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services; limit our access to credit; result in a modification or suspension of our business practices; require us to develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies; prompt ancillary claims, lawsuits, proceedings, investigations, inquiries, or requests; consume financial and other resources which may otherwise be utilized for other purposes, such as advancing other products and services on our platform; cause a breach or cancellation of certain contracts; or result in a loss of customers, investors, or partners. Any of the foregoing, or any significant additional laws or regulations, or our failure to comply with any laws and regulations that now or in the future could apply to our business, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We may become involved in litigation and other disputes that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. As we face increasing competition and gain a higher profile, we have become, and may in the future become, a party to litigation, claims, investigations, inquiries, proceedings, and other disputes related to, among other things, our intellectual property, commercial matters, business or employment practices, regulatory compliance (including securities law compliance), products, services, and platform. Declines in stock price, which we have experienced and may experience from time to time, can increase the risk of securities class action litigation. Such litigation can be costly and time-consuming, divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations, and dissuade prospective customers from subscribing to our products or services. We have become, and may in the future become, party to legal proceedings and claims alleging infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property, whether with or without merit, which have been, and could continue to be, time-consuming to defend, and have resulted, and could continue to result, in costly litigation and diversion of resources. Such legal proceedings are unpredictable, and we could receive an unfavorable outcome in pending or future proceedings. If any such proceedings are successful, or if we need to settle disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us, we could be required to change our products and business practices, indemnify our customers or business partners, pay substantial settlement costs, or refund fees. We may also have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of third-party rights, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms or may not be available to us at all. Additionally, during the course of any litigation or dispute, we may make announcements regarding the results of hearings and motions and other interim developments. If securities analysts and investors consider these announcements negative, our stock price may decline. Any of the above could increase our operating expenses, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Increased government scrutiny of the technology industry generally or our operations specifically could negatively affect our business. The technology industry is subject to intense media, political, and regulatory scrutiny, which may expose us to government investigations, legal actions, and penalties. Various regulatory agencies, including competition, consumer protection, and privacy authorities, have active proceedings and investigations concerning technology companies, some of which have offerings, like app marketplaces and collaboration tools, that are similar to services and features we offer. If proceedings or investigations targeted at other companies result in determinations that certain practices are unlawful, we could be required to change our products and services or alter our business operations, which could harm our business. Legislators and regulators also have proposed new laws and regulations intended to restrain the activities of some technology companies. If such laws or regulations are enacted, they could adversely impact us, even if they are not intended to affect our company. The increased scrutiny of acquisitions in the technology industry also could affect our ability to enter into strategic transactions or to acquire other businesses. Compliance with new or modified laws and 30 Table of Contents regulations could increase the cost of conducting business, limit opportunities to increase our revenues, or prevent us from offering products or services. In addition, the introduction of new products and services, expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions or with certain government customers, or other actions we may take may subject us to additional laws, rules, and regulations, or other government scrutiny. We may not always be able to accurately predict the scope or applicability of certain laws, rules, or regulations to our business, particularly as we expand into new areas of operations, such as Procore Pay, which could negatively affect our business and our ability to pursue future plans. Compliance with any such new laws and regulations will be costly, time consuming, and, as a global commercial organization, require expenditure of our limited resources to be in compliance with the various standards across the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to adequately meet these new and upcoming disclosure requirements may affect the manner and locations in which we choose to conduct our business and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any perceived or actual breach by us of applicable laws, rules, and regulations could have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand and could cause us to lose customers in existing and emerging lines of business, prevent us from acquiring new customers, require us to expend significant resources to remedy issues caused by such breaches and to avert further breaches, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability. Our liability for third-party content on our platform, such as content posted by customers and other users, currently is limited by Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (the CDA). The U.S. Congress and federal agencies have proposed further changes or amendments to the CDA each year since 2019, including, among other things, proposals that would narrow CDA immunity, expand government enforcement power relating to content moderation concerns, or repeal the CDA altogether. In addition, some states have passed, and other states may adopt, laws intended to limit the protection afforded by Section 230 of the CDA. For example, laws passed by Florida and Texas related to Section 230 of the CDA are the subject of pending legal challenges. We expect that courts will continue to interpret the scope of Section 230 of the CDA in cases in which platforms seek to invoke its protections. Any changes to the protection afforded by Section 230 of the CDA could decrease or change our protections from liability for third-party content in the U.S. There are other cases pending before the judiciary that may result in changes to the protections Section 230 of the CDA affords to internet platforms. We could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, if we are found liable, significant damages or license costs. We could also face fines or orders restricting or blocking our services in particular geographies as a result of content hosted on our services. If any of these events occur, we may incur significant costs or be required to make significant changes to our products, services, business practices, or operations and our business could be seriously harmed. We also could be harmed by government investigations, litigation, or changes in laws and regulations directed at our business partners or suppliers in the technology industry that have the effect of limiting our ability to do business with those entities. For example, the U.S. government recently has taken action against companies operating in China intended to limit their ability to do business in the U.S. or with U.S. companies. We are currently subject to regulatory inquiries in the ordinary course of business, and may face additional inquiries in the future. Regulatory actions, even if unsuccessful, can be costly, distract us from our core business, and can lead to high defense costs, damage awards, injunctions, increased business costs, fines, or required changes to our business practices. These actions could also demand significant management attention and operational resources, harming our business. We are pursuing FedRAMP authorization in order to facilitate our ability to enter into contracts with U.S. federal entities and contractors. Achieving FedRAMP authorization requires significant time and resources, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful on the timelines we estimate, or at all. If we are successful, our business and operations will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements and scrutiny, along with the additional costs and challenges of complying with such requirements, and there is a risk that the costs of achieving and maintaining FedRAMP authorization will not be offset, in full or at all, by increased sales of our products, services, and platform. Contracting with government entities involves additional risks due to, among other things, the nature of the government procurement process and the costs and burden of complying with the complex and often changing requirements that apply to government contracts. We may face audits and investigations in connection with government contracts, and any violations thereof could lead to penalties, contract termination, fines, suspension from future government business, and damage to our reputation and operating results, among other risks. The sale of products and services to government entities also comes with challenges, such as longer sales and collection cycles and different budgeting processes. 31 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our business will not be materially adversely affected, individually or in the aggregate, by such scrutiny or the outcomes of any such investigations, inquiries, litigation, or changes to laws and regulations in the future. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Our products, services, and platform are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export control and sanctions laws and regulations, including the U.S. Department of Commerces Export Administration Regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control. The U.S. export control laws and U.S. economic sanctions laws include restrictions or prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons, and entities, identified by the U.S., and also require authorization for the export of certain encryption items. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain cloud-based solutions to countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted or could enact laws that could limit our ability to make available or implement our platform in those countries. While we have implemented certain procedures to facilitate compliance with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the collection of this information, we cannot assure you that these procedures have been effective or that we, or third parties, many of whom we do not control, have complied with all laws or regulations in this regard. Failure by our customers, employees, representatives, contractors, partners, agents, intermediaries, or other third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the collection of this information also could have negative consequences to us, including reputational harm, government investigations, and penalties. Although we take precautions to prevent our information collection practices from being in violation of such laws, our information collection practices may have been in the past, and could in the future be, in violation of such laws. If we or our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, agents, intermediaries, or other third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and fines and penalties. We may also be adversely affected through other penalties, reputational harm, loss of access to certain countries, or otherwise. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. While we are working to implement additional controls designed to prevent similar activity from occurring in the future, these controls may not be fully effective. Changes in our platform, or changes in sanctions and import and export laws, may delay the introduction and sale of subscriptions to access our products or services internationally, prevent our customers with international operations from using our platform, or in some cases, prevent the access or use of our platform to and from certain countries, governments, persons, or entities altogether. Further, any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions, or related laws, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations could result in decreased use of our platform or in our decreased ability to export or sell subscriptions to use our platform to existing or prospective customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell subscriptions to use our platform could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws in the U.S. and other countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti- bribery laws, which have been enforced aggressively and are interpreted broadly, prohibit companies and their employees, agents, intermediaries, and other third parties from promising, authorizing, making, or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector. In the future, we may leverage third parties, including intermediaries, agents, and partners, to conduct our business in the U.S. and abroad and to sell subscriptions. We and these third parties may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities, and we may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, agents, intermediaries, and other third parties, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to facilitate compliance with the FCPA, the 32 Table of Contents Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, we cannot assure you that they will be effective, or that all of our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, agents, intermediaries, or other third parties have taken, or will not take actions, in violation of our policies and procedures and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, severe criminal or civil sanctions, settlements, prosecution, loss of export privileges, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, and other consequences. Any investigations, actions, or sanctions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Certain of our services subject us to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding the unauthorized practice of law (UPL). UPL generally refers to a person or entity that is not licensed to practice law but that gives legal advice or advertises its services as the practice of law. As a result of our acquisition of Express Lien, Inc. (d/b/a Levelset) (Levelset) in November 2021, certain lien rights management services that we now offer involve activities that could represent an alternative to traditional legal services and, as a result, may potentially subject us to UPL allegations. Our lien rights management business model includes the provision of document-processing services in connection with the filing of mechanics liens. In the past, various aspects of Levelsets lien rights management offering have been subject to claims of UPL. We currently face, and may in the future continue to face, similar claims, actions, or proceedings. The laws and regulations that define UPL, and the governing bodies that enforce UPL rules, differ among the various jurisdictions in which we operate, and the scope of these laws and regulations is often vague, broad, and evolving. As a result, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations can be uncertain and conflicting. For example, regulation of legal document processing, a component of our lien rights management offering, varies among the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Compliance with these disparate laws and regulations may require us to structure our business and services differently in certain jurisdictions, which could lead to operating inefficiencies. Maintaining compliance with UPL rules across various jurisdictions may cause us to incur significant expenses and may require that we dedicate significant management time to dealing with UPL issues, which could divert managements attention from other matters. As we continue to support our lien rights management offering or expand into new jurisdictions, we may face increased scrutiny and risk of additional UPL claims, actions, or proceedings. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with applicable UPL laws and regulations may subject us to regulatory inquiries, actions, lawsuits, or proceedings. Levelset has incurred in the past, and we expect to incur in the future, costs associated with responding to, defending, resolving, and settling UPL claims, actions, and proceedings. We can give no assurance that we will prevail in any such matters on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Responding to, defending, and settling regulatory inquiries, action, lawsuits, and proceedings may be time-consuming and divert management and financial resources or have other adverse effects on our business. A negative outcome in any of these proceedings may result in claims, actions, changes to or discontinuance of some of our services, potential liabilities, and additional costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our Procore Pay payment solution is subject to a number of laws and regulations applicable to payment solutions, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could interfere with the success of Procore Pay. Various laws and regulations govern the payments industry throughout the U.S.. Procore Pay, our payment solution, holds licenses, or is applying to hold licenses, to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states, as well as in the District of Columbia and certain territories, where such licenses are required. Licensed money transmitters are subject to numerous requirements, including restrictions on the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bond requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations required to maintain money transmitter licenses for Procore Pay, we could be subject to investigations and resulting liability, including governmental fines, restrictions on our business, or other sanctions, or be forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states or territories, forced to change our business practices, required to change our product functionality, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose additional costs and harm our 33 Table of Contents business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain money transmitter licenses in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate. Even if we are able to do so, there could be substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In 2025, Procore Pay began processing payments in markets where PPS is licensed as a money transmitter. In markets where PPS is not currently licensed as a money transmitter, Procore Pay relies on payment partners to process payments. Local regulators may use their authority over such partners to prohibit, restrict, or limit us from doing business in their respective jurisdictions. Our payment partners may be subject to extensive compliance obligations as well as enforcement actions, fines, and litigation if found to violate any legal or regulatory requirements that apply to them. Our payment partners may choose not to renew their agreement with us for this or any other reason, or may seek to involve us in enforcement actions, fines, or litigation related to the services they provide. Any significant disruption in the services provided through Procore Pay could prevent transactions from being processed in a timely manner, or at all. If we or our payment partners experience delays or disruptions in services or other issues, including in networks or systems that result in the inability to process payment in a timely manner, or at all, we could become involved in enforcement actions, fines, or litigation. Procore Pay is also subject to anti-money laundering (AML) laws and regulations. Although we have an AML program in place that is designed to help prevent Procore Pay from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities, or from doing business in countries or with persons and entities included on designated country or person lists promulgated by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Controls and equivalent authorities in other countries, there is no guarantee that our program will result in full compliance with applicable AML requirements, which can shift rapidly. Non-compliance with AML laws and regulations or economic and trade sanctions may subject us to significant fines, penalties, lawsuits, and enforcement actions, result in regulatory sanctions and additional compliance requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations, and damage our reputation and brands. Our compliance history may be considered by OFAC and other regulators as part of any potential future investigation of our sanctions regulation. We maintain a fraud risk management policy and procedures to help manage fraud risk and minimize exposure to substantial losses, but the policy and procedures may not prevent all fraud or risk of loss. If these programs are not continuously monitored and improved, senders could potentially direct payments to the wrong recipients or bad actors within a customers organization could make fraudulent payments, which could harm our reputation and damage our brand, business, and operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information could diminish our brand and other intangible assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We primarily rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, licenses, and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information, all of which provide only limited protection. As of December 31, 2024, we had 80 issued patents in the U.S. and 93 pending patent applications in the U.S. Additionally, we had 3 issued patents in foreign countries, 28 pending patent applications in foreign countries, as well as 6 pending international patent applications that preserve our right to file additional foreign patent applications in the future. Our issued patents in the U.S. will expire between 2034 and 2043. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technologies and related processes. We make business decisions about when to seek patent protection for a particular technology and when to rely upon copyright or trade secret protection, and the approach we select may ultimately prove to be inadequate. Even when we seek patent protection, there is no assurance that the resulting patents will effectively protect every significant feature of our products, services, or platform. In addition, we believe that the protection of our trademark rights is an important factor in product recognition, protecting our brand, and maintaining goodwill. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our trademarks from infringement, misappropriation, and unauthorized use, any goodwill that we have developed in those trademarks could be lost 34 Table of Contents or impaired, which could harm our brand and our business. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. From time to time, we have been, and may continue to be, subject to claims of alleged infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Third parties may also knowingly or unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights. In any of these cases we may not be able to prevent infringement without incurring substantial expenses. Others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights, or develop similar technologies and processes. Additionally, pending and future patent, trademark, and copyright applications may not be approved, and our issued patents may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable, or invalidated. Further, laws in certain jurisdictions may afford little or no trade secret protection, and any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our products, services, platform, brand, and other intangible assets may be diminished, and competitors may be able to more effectively replicate our platform and its features. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We license technology from third parties and our inability to maintain those licenses could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We currently incorporate, and will in the future incorporate, technology that we license from third parties into our products, services, and platform. We cannot be certain that our licensors do not or will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have or will have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions where we may sell subscriptions to use our products, services, or platform. Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated by them for convenience or otherwise provide for a limited term. If we are unable to continue our license agreements or enter into new licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop and sell subscriptions to use products or services containing that technology would be limited, and our business could be harmed. For example, if we are unable to license technology from third parties, such as technology that helps enable our products, services, or platform, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology, which we may be unable to do in a commercially feasible manner or at all, which may require us to use alternative technology of lower quality or performance standards. This could limit or delay our ability to offer certain existing, new, or competitive products or services and may increase our costs. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our use of third-party open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell subscriptions to access our products and subject us to possible litigation. From time to time, companies that use third-party open source software have faced claims challenging the use of such open source software and compliance with the open source software license terms. Accordingly, we may be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require end-users, who distribute or make available across a network software and services that include open source software, to make publicly available or to license all or part of such software (which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code, such as modifications or derivative works created, based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software) under the terms of the particular open source license. While we employ practices designed to monitor our compliance with the licenses of third-party open source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we may inadvertently use third-party open source software in a manner that exposes us to claims of non-compliance with the terms of the applicable license, including claims of intellectual property rights infringement or for breach of contract. Furthermore, there exists today an increasing number of types of open source software licenses, almost none of which have been tested in courts of law to provide clarity on their proper legal interpretation. If we were to receive a claim of non-compliance with the terms of any of these open source licenses, we may be required to publicly release certain 35 Table of Contents portions of our proprietary source code. We could also be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, the use of third-party open source software typically exposes us to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects, and could help competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Our customers and other users violations of our policies or other misuse of our platform to transmit unauthorized, offensive, or illegal messages, spam, phishing scams, and website links to harmful applications or for other fraudulent or illegal activity could damage our reputation, and we may face a risk of litigation and liability for illegal activities on our platform and unauthorized, inaccurate, or fraudulent information distributed via our platform. Despite our ongoing and substantial efforts to limit such use, certain customers or other users may use our platform to transmit unauthorized, offensive, or illegal messages, calls, spam, phishing scams, and website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted material or the trademarks of others without permission, and report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. These actions are in violation of our policies. Our efforts to defeat spamming attacks, illegal robocalls, and other fraudulent activity will not prevent all such attacks and activity. Such use of our platform could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, regulatory enforcement, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence, or fraud. Moreover, our customers and other users promotion of their products and services through our platform might not comply with federal, state, and foreign laws. We rely on contractual representations made to us by our customers that their use of our platform will comply with our policies and applicable law. Although we retain the right to verify that customers and other users are abiding by our policies, our customers and other users are ultimately responsible for compliance with our policies, and we do not systematically audit our customers or other users to confirm compliance with our policies. Although Section 230 of the CDA currently limits liability for third-party content posted on internet platforms, we cannot predict whether that protection will remain in effect. See the risk factor titled Increased government scrutiny of the technology industry generally or our operations specifically could negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Our Acquisitions We may be unsuccessful in making, integrating, and maintaining acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic investments, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We expect to continue to evaluate and complete a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of businesses, joint ventures, new technologies, services, products, and other assets, and other strategic investments. Any of these transactions could be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition, joint venture, and strategic investment candidates, and we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, transactions may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and the law related to such regulatory scrutiny is evolving, which creates uncertainty. Even if we are able to complete these transactions, we may incur substantial costs and may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions in the time frame expected or at all. In particular, if we are unable to successfully operate as a combined business after the completion of such transactions to achieve shared growth opportunities or combine reporting or other processes within the expected time frame, such delay may materially and adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of any such acquisition. For example, in October 2023, we ceased originations under our materials financing program, which we assumed pursuant to the Levelset acquisition. Such transactions may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our strategic goals and may disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses, and otherwise present risks not contemplated at the time of the transaction. In addition, we may inherit commitments, risks, and liabilities of companies that we acquire that we are unable to successfully mitigate and that may be amplified by our existing business. Further, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic 36 Table of Contents investments could change rapidly. Following any such transaction, we could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects through the write-off of goodwill and other impairment charges. To finance such transactions, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue securities, including equity-based securities, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock. The sale of equity to finance any such transaction could result in dilution to our stockholders. If we incur debt in connection with such a transaction, it would result in increased fixed obligations and could also subject us to covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to flexibly operate our business. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our ability to consummate a transaction, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Risks Related to Tax Matters We could be required to collect additional sales and use, value added, goods and services, business, gross receipts, and other indirect tax liabilities in various jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We currently collect and remit applicable indirect taxes in jurisdictions where we, through our employees or economic activity, have a presence and where we have determined, based on applicable legal precedents, that sales of subscriptions to access our products, services, and platform are taxable. We do not currently collect and remit indirect taxes, including state and local excise, utility user, and ad valorem taxes, fees, and surcharges in jurisdictions where we believe we do not have sufficient nexus. There is uncertainty as to what constitutes sufficient nexus for a state or local jurisdiction to levy taxes, fees, and surcharges on sales made over the internet, and there is also uncertainty as to whether our characterization of our products, services, and platform as not taxable in certain jurisdictions will be accepted by state and local tax authorities. Tax authorities may challenge our position that we do not have sufficient nexus in a taxing jurisdiction or that our products, services, and platform are not taxable in such jurisdiction and may decide to audit our business and operations with respect to indirect taxes, which could result in significant tax liabilities (including related penalties and interest) for us or our customers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The application of indirect taxes, such as sales and use, value added, goods and services, business, and gross receipts taxes, to businesses that transact online, such as ours, is a complex and evolving area. Following the 2018 U.S. Supreme Court decision in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., states and local jurisdictions in certain circumstances may levy sales and use taxes on sales of goods and services based on economic nexus, regardless of whether the seller has a physical presence in such jurisdiction. A number of states have already begun, or have positioned themselves to begin, requiring collection of sales and use taxes by online sellers. The details and effective dates of these collection requirements vary from state to state. As a result, it may be necessary for us to reevaluate whether our activities give rise to sales, use, and other indirect taxes as a result of any nexus in those states in which we are not currently registered to collect and remit taxes. Additionally, we may need to assess our potential tax collection and remittance obligations based on the requirements of existing or future economic nexus laws. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous jurisdictions in which we conduct or may conduct business. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our customers, we could be held liable for such obligations. The application of existing, or future indirect tax laws, whether in the U.S. or internationally, or the failure to collect and remit such taxes, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements cause us to be subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We are expanding our international operations and personnel to support our business internationally. We generally conduct our international operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries and are or may be required to report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions may depend on the 37 Table of Contents application of the tax laws of such jurisdictions, including the U.S., to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws, or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies, and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for pricing intercompany transactions, which are generally required to be computed on an arms-length basis pursuant to intercompany arrangements, or may disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. We are subject to federal, state, and local income, sales, and other taxes in the U.S. and income, withholding, transaction, and other taxes in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes is complicated and requires the exercise of significant judgment. During the ordinary course of business, there are many activities and transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may be audited in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of any tax audits or litigation could differ materially from our historical tax provisions and accruals, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which a determination is made. Our business could be materially adversely affected by changes to tax laws. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws, regulations, or rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA), the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act (the IRA) made many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws. Beginning in 2022, the TCJA requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize certain research and development expenditures over five years if incurred in the U.S. and 15 years if incurred in foreign jurisdictions, rather than deducting them currently. Although there have been legislative proposals to repeal or defer the research and development expenditure capitalization requirement to later years, there can be no assurance that the provision will be repealed or otherwise modified. As another example, the IRA includes provisions that will impact the U.S. federal income taxation of certain corporations, including imposing a minimum tax on the book income of certain large corporations and a 1% excise tax on the value of certain corporate stock repurchases by publicly traded companies that would be imposed on the company repurchasing such stock. Regulatory or accounting guidance with respect to existing or future tax laws could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. It is uncertain if, and to what extent, various states will conform to current federal law or any newly enacted federal tax legislation. In addition, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations (including the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the OECD) and the European Commission), have recently proposed, recommended, or (in the case of certain countries) enacted, or are in the process of enacting, changes to existing tax laws or new tax laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in the countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, the OECD is working on a two-pillar solution to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy, commonly referred to as BEPS 2.0, which, to the extent implemented, would make important changes to the international tax system by allocating taxing rights in respect of certain profits of multinational enterprises above a fixed profit margin to the jurisdictions within which they carry on business (subject to certain revenue threshold rules which we do not currently meet but may meet in the future), referred to as the Pillar One proposal, and imposing a minimum effective tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, referred to as the Pillar Two proposal. A number of countries within which we carry on our business have implemented, or are currently expected to implement, core elements of the Pillar Two proposal. Based on our current understanding of the minimum revenue thresholds contained in the Pillar Two rules, we currently expect to be within their scope beginning in 2025. The OECD has issued administrative guidance providing transition and safe harbor rules in relation to the implementation of the Pillar Two proposal. We are monitoring developments and evaluating the potential impacts of these new rules, including on our effective tax rates, and considering our eligibility to qualify for these safe harbor rules. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects, and we may be required to incur additional material costs and expenditure to ensure compliance with any such rules in each of the relevant jurisdictions within which we carry on our business. 38 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards (NOL carryforwards) and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2024, we had $822.6 million of U.S. federal and $626.7 million of state NOL carryforwards available to reduce taxable income that we may have in the future. It is possible that we will not generate taxable income sufficient to use certain of these NOL carryforwards. Under current law, our U.S. federal NOLs incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may be carried forward indefinitely, but the ability to utilize such federal NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income is limited to 80% of the current-year taxable income. In addition, federal NOL carryforwards and certain tax credits may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 and Section 383 of the Internal Revenue Code (the IRC), respectively. Under those sections of the IRC, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5-percent shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. We have experienced ownership changes in the past, and may experience additional ownership changes in the future, as a result of shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control. Our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards is conditioned upon generating future U.S. federal taxable income, and we do not know whether or when we will do so. Therefore, our NOL carryforwards generated prior to 2018 could expire unused. State NOL carryforwards and other state tax credits may be subject to similar limitations under state tax laws, and there may be periods during which the use of state NOL carryforwards is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. For example, California imposed limits on the usability of California state NOLs to offset taxable income in tax years beginning after 2023 and before 2027. If our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and tax credits is limited, or if our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards and certain tax credits is otherwise restricted by law, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Capital Requirements, Our Marketable Securities Portfolio, and Liquidity We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business, and such capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could reduce our ability to compete and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. To support our business and operations, we will need sufficient capital to continue to make significant investments, and we may need to raise additional capital through equity or debt financings to fund such efforts. However, many factors, including recent economic volatility and interest rate changes, could adversely impact our ability to access additional capital. If such financing is not available on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may be unable to fund our growth or develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses, may contain covenants that restrict the operation of our business, and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing, or debt financing that is convertible into equity, could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and a decline in our stock price. Our inability to obtain adequate capital resources, whether in the form of equity or debt, to fund our future growth may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our operations or the expansion of our business, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our marketable securities portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks that could cause its value to decline significantly and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities through a professional investment advisor. The investments in our portfolio are subject to our corporate investment policy, which focuses on preserving principal, maintaining liquidity, avoiding inappropriate concentration and credit risk, and capturing a market rate of return in accordance with the investment guidelines in the corporate investment policy. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. In particular, the value of our portfolio may decline due to changes in interest rates, instability in the global financial markets that reduces the liquidity of securities in our portfolio, and other factors, including unexpected or unprecedented events such as health epidemics or pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic). As a result, we may experience a significant 39 Table of Contents decline in value or loss of liquidity of our investments, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We attempt to mitigate these risks through diversification of our investments and continuous monitoring of our portfolios overall risk profile, but the value of our investments may nevertheless decline. To the extent that we increase the amount of our security investments in the future, these risks could be exacerbated. General Risks Related to Our Business and Investing in Our Common Stock If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over our financial reporting, including our acquired companies, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. We expect that the requirements of these laws, rules, and regulations will continue to increase our IT, legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more complex, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. We cannot predict or estimate the totality of additional costs we incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure