Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March 1, 2023. You should review the disclosure under Part II, Item 1A - Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments, except as required by law. Overview Our mission is to connect everyone in construction on a global platform. We are a leading global provider of cloud-based construction management software, and are helping transform one of the oldest, largest, and least digitized industries in the world. We focus exclusively on connecting and empowering the construction industrys key stakeholders, such as owners, general contractors, specialty contractors, architects, and engineers, to collaborate and access our capabilities from any location, on any internet-connected device. Our platform is modernizing and digitizing construction management by enabling real-time access to critical project information, simplifying complex workflows, and facilitating seamless communication among key stakeholders, all of which we believe positions us to serve as the system of record for the construction industry. We are also continuing to develop other programs and services, such as our materials financing program, to address related challenges faced by the construction industrys key stakeholders. Adoption of our products, services, and platform helps our customers increase productivity and efficiency, reduce rework and costly delays, improve safety and compliance, and enhance financial transparency and accountability. In short, we build the software for the people that build the world. We serve customers ranging from small businesses managing a few million dollars of annual construction volume to global enterprises managing billions of dollars of annual construction volume. Our core customers are owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors operating across the commercial, residential, industrial, and infrastructure segments of the construction industry. We primarily sell subscriptions to access our products through our direct sales team, which is specialized by stakeholder, region, size, and type. Our products are offered on our cloud-based platform and are designed to be easy to configure and deploy. Our users can access our products on computers, smartphones, and tablets through any web browser or from our mobile application available for both the iOS and Android platforms. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products and have an unlimited user model that is designed to facilitate adoption and maximize usage of our platform by all project stakeholders. We primarily sell our products on a subscription basis for a fixed fee with pricing generally based on the number and mix of products and the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform. As our customers subscribe to additional products or increase the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform, we generate more revenue. We do not provide refunds for unused construction volume, or charge customers based on consumption or on a per project basis. Subscriptions to access our products include customer support and allow for unlimited users as we do not charge a per-seat or per-user fee. Customers can invite all project participants to engage with our platform as part of a project team, including customers employees and collaborators, who are other project participants who engage with our platform but do not pay us for such use. Further, multiple stakeholders can be customers on the same project and retain access to project information for the duration of their subscription. 22 Table of Contents Certain Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers and Retaining and Expanding Existing Customers Use of Our Platform We are highly focused on continuing to acquire new customers to support our long-term growth. We intend to efficiently drive new customer acquisitions by continuing to invest across our sales and marketing engine to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our products, services, and platform. The number of customers on our platform has increased from 12,809 as of March 31, 2022 to 15,089 as of March 31, 2023, including 189 customers from LaborChart, Inc. ("LaborChart") when it was integrated into the sales process in the third quarter of 2022, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 18%. All aforementioned customer counts exclude customers acquired from Express Lien, Inc. (d/b/a Levelset) ("Levelset") and Esticom, Inc. ("Esticom") that have not yet been renewed onto standard Procore annual contracts. Remaining Levelset and Esticom legacy customers will be included in our customer metrics once they are renewed onto standard Procore annual contracts or upon integration of the sales process. Our ability to continue to grow our business and serve the broader needs of the construction industry depends on acquiring new customers, customers purchasing new products or signing up for new services, customers renewing and expanding their use of existing products and services, and maintaining or increasing the price of our existing products and services. Continued Technology Innovation and Strategic Expansion of Our Products and Services We plan to continue to invest in technology innovation and product development to enhance the capabilities of our platform. Additional features and products will also enable customers and collaborators to manage new workflows on our platform and allow us to attract a broader set of stakeholders. We have introduced new products and services developed in-house and through our acquisitions of Zimfly, Inc., Honest Buildings, Inc., Construction BI, LLC, Esticom, LaborChart, and Levelset. In connection with our acquisition of Levelset, we assumed, and continue to develop, a materials financing program for our customers. Purchasers of construction materials, typically specialty contractors, generally pay their materials suppliers on 30-day payment terms but typically do not recoup their costs for such materials for 60 to 120 days after they submit invoices for those materials to the general contractors. This disconnect between payment terms set by suppliers and when specialty contractors receive payment for those materials can pose risk and uncertainty to specialty contractors and their ability to manage their cash flow. Our materials financing program facilitates the purchase of construction materials from fulfillment partners (our suppliers) on behalf of our customers, allowing such customers to pay us for the materials on deferred payment terms. We typically charge an origination fee upon purchase of the materials and a weekly finance charge until receipt of deferred payment in full. We use internal data where available on the performance and payment history of other project participants (like the property owner and general contractor) who are involved in the construction project to help determine whether to provide materials financing for a given project, and we secure such financing with mechanics lien rights. In circumstances of customer non-payment, our lien rights help enforce payment collections from property owners, lenders, and general contractors who are involved in such project, which in turn strengthens the collectability of amounts we finance for our customers. We are currently using capital from our balance sheet for our materials financing program. Ultimately, we anticipate partnering with a capital provider at the appropriate time to dedicate the financing needed to scale this program. Until that time, we may use up to approximately 10% of our current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities position to support the program. We intend to continue to invest in building additional products, financial offerings, features, and functionality that expand our capabilities and facilitate the extension of our platform. For example, in March 2023, we launched Procore Risk Advisors, a modern construction brokerage that offers insurance and surety solutions. We also intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions and investments in businesses and technologies to drive product and market expansion. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop or acquire, market, and sell existing and new products and services to both new and existing customers. 23 Table of Contents International Growth We see international expansion as a major, and largely greenfield, opportunity for growth as we look to capture a larger part of the worldwide construction market. We have started to grow our presence internationally with the opening of sales and marketing offices in Sydney, Australia and Vancouver and Toronto, Canada in 2017; London, England in 2018; Mexico City, Mexico in 2019; and Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; and Dubai, United Arab Emirates ("UAE") in 2022. We have also developed focused sales and marketing efforts in Germany, where we do not maintain an office location. As a result of our international efforts, we support multiple languages and currencies. Non-U.S. revenue as a percentage of our total revenue was 14% as of March 31, 2023 and 15% as of March 31, 2022. We determine the percentage of non-U.S. revenue based on the billing location of each customer. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may positively or negatively impact the amount of revenue that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. dollars. Furthermore, we believe global demand for our products, services, and platform will continue to increase as we expand our international sales and marketing efforts, and the awareness of our products, services, and platform grows. However, our ability to conduct our operations internationally will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, currencies, cultures, customs, legal, tax and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems, and commercial markets. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant investments in existing and select additional international markets. While these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe they will contribute to our long-term growth. Macroeconomic Factors Macroeconomic factors such as rising inflation, rising interest rates, volatility in capital markets, bank failures, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, may impact our operating expenses, customers spending, and cash flows. We do not currently believe that these macroeconomic factors have had a material impact on our business; however, as they develop, we continue to monitor the ways in which such factors may directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the section titled Risk Factors in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion. 24 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products and related support. Subscriptions are sold for a fixed fee and revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription. Our subscriptions generally have annual or multi-year terms, are typically subject to renewal at the end of the subscription term, and are non-cancelable. To the extent we invoice our customers in advance of revenue recognition, we record deferred revenue. Consequently, a portion of the revenue that we report each period is attributable to the recognition of revenue previously deferred related to subscriptions that we entered into during previous periods. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of personnel-related compensation expenses for our customer support team, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, commissions, and bonuses. Cost of revenue also includes third-party hosting costs, software license fees, amortization of acquired technology intangible assets, amortization of capitalized software development costs related to our platform, and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of revenue to increase on an absolute dollar basis as our revenue and acquisition activities increase. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in platform hosting, customer support, and software development as we grow our business and to ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our products. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Costs related to the development of internal-use software for new products and major platform enhancements are capitalized until the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized software development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the developed softwares estimated useful life of two years and the amortization is recorded in cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. For each of these categories of expense, personnel-related compensation expenses are the most significant component, which include salaries, stock-based compensation, commissions, benefits, payroll taxes, and bonuses. To support the growth of our business, we also increased our headcount in each of these categories. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our sales and marketing organizations, advertising costs, marketing events, travel, trade shows and other marketing activities, amortization of acquired customer relationship intangible assets, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels, consulting services, and allocated overhead. We expense advertising and other promotional expenditures as incurred. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, as we increase our investment in sales and marketing efforts over the foreseeable future, primarily from increased headcount in sales and marketing as well as investment in marketing to drive customer growth. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our engineering, product, and design teams, contractor costs to supplement our staff levels, consulting services, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets used in research and development activities, and allocated overhead. We expect research and development expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in headcount to build, enhance, maintain, and scale our products, services, and platform. 25 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our human resources, finance, information technology, legal, executive, and other administrative functions. Additionally, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel-related expenses, such as professional fees for audit, legal, tax, and other external consulting services; costs associated with operating as a public company, including insurance costs, professional services, investor relations, and other compliance costs; property and use taxes; licenses; travel and entertainment costs; and allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, as we continue to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business, including our international expansion. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our money market funds, marketable securities, and cash savings accounts. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of costs associated with our finance leases. Accretion Income, Net Accretion income, net consists of accretion of discounts, net of amortization of premiums, related to our available-for-sale marketable debt securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net primarily consists of gains or losses on foreign currency transactions, unrealized gains or losses on equity securities, and miscellaneous other income and expenses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes of U.S. state franchise taxes and certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. As we expand our international operations, we expect to incur increased foreign tax expenses. We have a full valuation allowance for net U.S. and United Kingdom ("U.K.") deferred tax assets. The U.S. valuation allowance includes net operating loss carryforwards ("NOL carryforwards") and tax credits related primarily to research and development for our operations in the U.S. The U.K. valuation allowance is primarily comprised of NOL carryforwards. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for our net U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets for the foreseeable future. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated. Certain percentages below may not sum due to rounding. Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue $ 213,526 $ 159,516 Cost of revenue(1)(2)(3) 40,202 33,332 Gross profit 173,324 126,184 Operating expenses Sales and marketing(1)(2)(3)(4) 117,363 93,915 Research and development(1)(2)(3)(4) 80,036 60,254 General and administrative(1)(3)(4) 45,188 43,152 Total operating expenses 242,587 197,321 Loss from operations (69,263) (71,137) Interest income 4,948 74 Interest expense (496) (565) Accretion income, net 1,632 Other (expense) income, net (210) 543 Loss before provision for income taxes (63,389) (71,085) Provision for income taxes 58 334 Net loss $ (63,447) $ (71,419) Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1)(2)(3) 19 % 21 % Gross profit 81 % 79 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing(1)(2)(3)(4) 55 % 59 % Research and development(1)(2)(3)(4) 37 % 38 % General and administrative(1)(3)(4) 21 % 27 % Total operating expenses 114 % 124 % Loss from operations (32 %) (45 %) Interest income 2 % 0 % Interest expense 0 % 0 % Accretion income, net 1 % 0 % Other (expense) income, net 0 % 0 % Loss before provision for income taxes (30 %) (45 %) Provision for income taxes 0 % 0 % Net loss (30 %) (45 %) 27 Table of Contents (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense and amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,496 $ 1,458 Sales and marketing 13,104 10,296 Research and development 19,781 13,008 General and administrative 10,475 12,447 Total stock-based compensation expense* $ 45,856 $ 37,209 *Includes amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 which was initially capitalized as capitalized software and cloud-computing arrangement implementation costs. (2)Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 5,493 $ 5,654 Sales and marketing 3,107 3,106 Research and development 734 902 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 9,334 $ 9,662 (3)Includes employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 167 $ 81 Sales and marketing 999 608 Research and development 1,356 1,027 General and administrative 632 545 Total employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions $ 3,154 $ 2,261 (4)Includes acquisition-related expenses as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 906 $ 207 Research and development 5,984 1,101 General and administrative 1,038 Total acquisition-related expenses $ 6,890 $ 2,346 28 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 213,526 $ 159,516 $ 54,010 34 % During the three months ended March 31, 2023, our revenue increased by $54.0 million, or 34%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, of which approximately 89% was attributable to revenue from existing customers and approximately 11% was attributable to revenue from new customers. The increase in revenue from existing customers includes the net benefit of a full quarter of subscription revenue in the first quarter of 2023 from customers that were newly acquired in 2022 and continued their subscriptions in the first quarter of 2023, and customers that expanded their subscriptions in the first quarter of 2023 through the purchase of additional construction volume or products and services. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 40,202 $ 33,332 $ 6,870 21 % Gross profit 173,324 126,184 47,140 37 % Gross margin 81 % 79 % The increase in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase of $3.7 million in personnel-related expenses, including an increase of $3.4 million in salaries and wages driven by headcount and merit increases. The increase in cost of revenue was also attributable to a $1.5 million increase in amortization of capitalized software development costs, and a $1.3 million increase in third-party cloud hosting and related services as we grow our customer base. We increased our cost of revenue headcount by 21% since March 31, 2022 in order to continue to support the growth of our business. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 117,363 $ 93,915 $ 23,448 25 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase of $21.1 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $17.9 million in salaries and wages and $2.8 million in stock-based compensation expense driven by headcount and merit increases. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was also attributable to a $1.5 million increase in marketing events and expenses, and a $1.1 million increase in travel-related costs. We increased our sales and marketing headcount by 25% since March 31, 2022 in order to continue to drive customer growth. 29 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 80,036 $ 60,254 $ 19,782 33 % The increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to an increase of $13.8 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $6.8 million in stock-based compensation expense and $6.7 million in salaries and wages driven by headcount and merit increases. The increase in research and development expenses was also attributable to a $4.9 million increase in acquisition-related expenses related to the acceleration of cash retention payments upon the departure of certain employees from our previous acquisitions. We increased our research and development headcount by 8% since March 31, 2022 in order to continue to build, enhance, maintain, and scale our products, services, and platform. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 45,188 $ 43,152 $ 2,036 5 % The increase in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to a $2.1 million increase in personnel-related expenses, including an increase of $4.0 million in salaries and wages driven by headcount and merit increases, partially offset by a decrease of $2.0 million in stock-based compensation expense. We increased our general and administrative headcount by 16% since March 31, 2022 in order to continue to support the growth of our business. Interest Income, Interest Expense, Accretion Income, Net, Other (Expense) Income, Net, and Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 4,948 $ 74 $ 4,874 * Interest expense 496 565 (69) (12 %) Accretion income, net 1,632 1,632 * Other (expense) income, net (210) 543 (753) * Provision for income taxes 58 334 (276) (83 %) *Percentage not meaningful During the three months ended March 31, 2023, our interest income increased by $2.7 million due to an increase in interest rates on our money market funds and cash savings accounts and by $2.2 million due to interest earned as a result of our purchases of marketable securities, which began in the third quarter of 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, accretion income, net increased by $1.6 million due to accretion income in excess of amortization of premiums as a result of our purchases of marketable securities, which began in the third quarter of 2022. 30 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP" or "U.S. GAAP"), we believe certain non-GAAP measures, as described below, are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use this non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, is helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, and may assist in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies since other companies may calculate such non-GAAP financial measures differently, and non-GAAP financial measures exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Non-GAAP Gross Profit, Non-GAAP Gross Margin, Non-GAAP Operating Expenses, Non-GAAP Loss from Operations, and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define these non-GAAP financial measures as the respective GAAP measures, excluding stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, employer payroll tax related to employee stock transactions, and acquisition-related expenses. Stock-based compensation expense includes the net effects of capitalization and amortization of stock-based compensation expense related to capitalized software and cloud-computing arrangement implementation costs. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of the compensation provided to our employees. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions, and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a companys non-cash expenses, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation expense allow for meaningful comparisons between our operating results from period to period. The expense related to amortization of acquired intangible assets is dependent upon estimates and assumptions, which can vary significantly and are unique to each asset acquired; therefore, we believe that non-GAAP measures that adjust for the amortization of acquired intangible assets provide investors a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on restricted stock unit settlements, option exercises, related stock price, and other factors that are beyond our control and that do not correlate to the operation of our business. When evaluating the performance of our business and making operating plans, we do not consider these items (for example, when considering the impact of equity award grants, we place a greater emphasis on overall stockholder dilution than the accounting charges associated with such grants). Acquisition-related expenses include external and incremental transaction costs, such as legal and due diligence costs, and retention payments. These expenses are unpredictable and generally would not have otherwise been incurred in the periods presented as part of our continuing operations. In addition, the size and complexity of an acquisition, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related expenses, may not be indicative of such future costs. We believe excluding acquisition-related expenses facilitates the comparison of our financial results to our historical operating results and to other companies in our industry. Overall, we believe it is useful to exclude these expenses in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results period-over-period and to those of peer companies. 31 Table of Contents The following tables present reconciliations of our GAAP financial measures to our non-GAAP financial measures for the periods presented: Reconciliation of gross profit and gross margin to non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 213,526 $ 159,516 Gross profit 173,324 126,184 Stock-based compensation expense 2,496 1,458 Amortization of acquired technology intangible assets 5,493 5,654 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 167 81 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 181,480 $ 133,377 Gross margin 81 % 79 % Non-GAAP gross margin 85 % 84 % Reconciliation of operating expenses to non-GAAP operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 213,526 $ 159,516 GAAP sales and marketing 117,363 93,915 Stock-based compensation expense (13,104) (10,296) Amortization of acquired intangible assets (3,107) (3,106) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (999) (608) Acquisition-related expenses (906) (207) Non-GAAP sales and marketing $ 99,247 $ 79,698 GAAP sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue 55 % 59 % Non-GAAP sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue 46 % 50 % GAAP research and development $ 80,036 $ 60,254 Stock-based compensation expense (19,781) (13,008) Amortization of acquired intangible assets (734) (902) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (1,356) (1,027) Acquisition-related expenses (5,984) (1,101) Non-GAAP research and development $ 52,181 $ 44,216 GAAP research and development as a percentage of revenue 37 % 38 % Non-GAAP research and development as a percentage of revenue 24 % 28 % GAAP general and administrative $ 45,188 $ 43,152 Stock-based compensation expense (10,475) (12,447) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (632) (545) Acquisition-related expenses (1,038) Non-GAAP general and administrative $ 34,081 $ 29,122 GAAP general and administrative as a percentage of revenue 21 % 27 % Non-GAAP general and administrative as a percentage of revenue 16 % 18 % 32 Table of Contents Reconciliation of loss from operations and operating margin to non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP operating margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 213,526 $ 159,516 Loss from operations (69,263) (71,137) Stock-based compensation expense 45,856 37,209 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 9,334 9,662 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 3,154 2,261 Acquisition-related expenses 6,890 2,346 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (4,029) $ (19,659) Operating margin (32 %) (45 %) Non-GAAP operating margin (2 %) (12 %) Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $602.8 million, which were held in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, corporate notes and obligations, time deposits, commercial paper, checking accounts, and savings accounts. Our investments in marketable securities are exposed to interest rate risk; however, due to the short-term nature of our investments, we do not anticipate being exposed to material risks due to changes in interest rates. As of March 31, 2023, we also held $3.1 million of restricted cash to secure corporate credit cards, which was subsequently released from restriction prior to the filing of our Form 10-Q, based on negotiations with the related bank in April 2023. On March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB") was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") appointed as receiver. The FDIC created a successor bridge bank, Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. ("SVBB"), and all deposits of SVB were transferred to SVBB under a systemic risk exception approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"), the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury Department"), and the FDIC. On March 12, 2023, the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve, and FDIC released a joint statement announcing that the FDIC will complete its resolution of SVB in a manner that fully protects all depositors at SVB and that depositors will have access to all of their money starting March 13, 2023. On March 27, 2023, First Citizens Bank & Trust Company ("First Citizens Bank") assumed all of SVBB's customer deposits and certain other liabilities and acquired substantially all of SVBB's loans and certain other assets from the FDIC. As of March 31, 2023, less than 1% of our total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances were held in deposit accounts at First Citizens Bank, and all other amounts with First Citizens Bank were held in money market funds. The vast majority of our cash and cash equivalents balances as of such date were held in the form of money market funds at other large, global financial institutions. These developments did not have a material impact on our day-to-day operations or on our liquidity requirements. We had outstanding letters of credit, formerly issued by SVB and backed by First Citizens Bank as of March 31, 2023, on an unsecured basis, totaling approximately $5.8 million to secure various leased office facilities in the U.S. and Australia. Our cash sources primarily consist of cash generated from sales to our customers, maturities of our marketable securities, proceeds from employees through stock option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), and interest income on our marketable securities, money market funds, and savings account balances. Our cash requirements are primarily for operating expenses, which include personnel-related costs, purchase obligations primarily for hosting and software license and other services, lease obligations, and capital expenditures for our employees and offices. We also fund investments which help drive our strategic business growth through acquisitions and investments in equity securities and limited partnership funds. We also have a materials financing program that finances our customers purchases of construction materials on deferred 33 Table of Contents payment terms. We are currently using capital from our balance sheet for our materials financing program. Ultimately, we anticipate partnering with a capital provider at the appropriate time to dedicate the financing needed to scale this program. Until that time, we may use up to approximately 10% of our current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities position to support the program. As of March 31, 2023, we had receivables for amounts financed for customers, net of the related allowance for expected credit losses, of $13.5 million on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We expect this business to grow in the future, which may impact our liquidity. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company executed a renewal agreement for hosting services for a total commitment of $45.0 million to be paid over the period from 2023 through 2025. There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations from those discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March 1, 2023. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. While we have begun to generate positive cash flows from operations in recent years, we have continued to generate losses from operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.0 billion as of March 31, 2023. We may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. This assessment is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our additional future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, new customer acquisition and subscription renewal activity, timing of billing activities, our ability to integrate the companies or technologies we acquire and realize strategic and financial benefits from our investments and acquisitions, other strategic transactions or investments we may enter into, the timing and extent of spending to support further sales and marketing and research and development efforts, general and administrative expenses to support our growth, including international expansion, the timing and extent of amounts financed and customer repayments under our materials financing program, and inflation. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to fund these activities. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or on acceptable terms, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As of March 31, 2023, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 29,275 $ 10,284 Net cash used in investing activities (79) (16,195) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,312 6,542 34 Table of Contents Operating Activities Our largest source of cash from operating activities is collections from the sales of subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses, hosting and software license expenses, and overhead. Net cash provided by operating activities was $29.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 which resulted from a net loss of $63.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $65.3 million and a net cash inflow of $27.4 million from changes in operating expenses and liabilities. The $27.4 million of net cash inflows provided as a result of changes in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflected the following: a $42.9 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and cash receipts from customers; a $6.5 million increase in deferred revenue primarily due to the growth of our business and timing of billings; a $4.6 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to timing of cash payments to our vendors; and a $4.5 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily due to the acceleration of acquisition-related expenses associated with cash retention payments upon the departure of certain employees from our previous acquisitions. These changes in our operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by the following: a $28.2 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the size and timing of bonus and commission accruals and payouts, ESPP contributions, payroll, and cash payments to our vendors; and a $2.6 million decrease in operating lease liabilities related to lease payments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $10.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, which resulted from a net loss of $71.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $53.6 million and net cash inflow of $28.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The $28.1 million of net cash inflows provided as a result of changes in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflected the following: a $34.5 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and cash receipts from customers; and an $8.8 million increase in deferred revenue primarily due to the growth of our business and timing of billings. These inflows from changes in our operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by the following: a $5.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily due to timing of cash payments to our vendors; a $4.4 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to timing of 2021 corporate bonus payout to our employees in the first quarter of 2022, payroll, cash payments to our vendors, and accrued ESPP contributions; a $4.1 million increase in deferred contract cost assets related to commissions as a result of additional customer contracts closed during the period; and a $1.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities related to lease payments. 35 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $90.0 million, capitalized software development costs of $8.0 million, originations for materials financing of $9.1 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $2.2 million primarily related to improvements to our leased office spaces and computer equipment purchases, partially offset by $103.9 million in maturities of marketable securities, and $5.4 million of customer repayments for materials financing. Net cash used in investing activities of $16.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted of capitalized software development costs of $7.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $7.5 million primarily related to improvements to our leased office spaces and computer equipment purchases, and strategic investments of $2.3 million, partially offset by $1.3 million in cash receipts from post-close working capital adjustments related to our acquisitions of Levelset and LaborChart in the fourth quarter of 2021. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $3.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of $3.7 million in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by $0.4 million in payments on our finance lease obligations. Net cash provided by financing activities of $6.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted of $6.9 million in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by $0.4 million in payments on our finance lease obligations. Remaining Performance Obligations Our subscriptions typically have a term of one to three years. The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations under our subscriptions represents the contracted transaction price that has not yet been recognized as revenue, which includes deferred revenue and amounts under non-cancelable subscriptions that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. As of March 31, 2023, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $805.5 million, of which approximately 73% is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months and substantially all of the remainder between 12 and 36 months thereafter. We expect remaining performance obligations to change from period to period primarily due to the size, timing, and duration of new customer contracts and customer renewals. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those accounting policies and estimates that are both the most important to the portrayal of our net assets and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates are developed based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates are accounting estimates where the nature of the estimates is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change and the impact of the estimates on financial condition or operating performance is material. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our critical accounting policies and more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements are discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K dated March 1, 2023. There have been no significant changes to these policies for the three months ended March 31, 2023. 36 Table of Contents