Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our 2024 Form 10-K. You should review the disclosures under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2024 Form 10-K for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments, except as required by law. Overview Our mission is to connect everyone in construction on a global platform. We are the leading global provider of cloud-based construction management software, and are helping transform one of the oldest, largest, and least digitized industries in the world. We focus exclusively on connecting and empowering the construction industrys key stakeholders, such as owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors, to collaborate and access our capabilities from any location, on any internet-connected device. Our platform is modernizing and digitizing construction management by enabling timely access to critical project information, simplifying complex workflows, and facilitating seamless communication among relevant stakeholders, all of which we believe positions us to serve as the system of record for the construction industry. We are also continuing to develop other programs and services to address related challenges faced by the construction industrys key stakeholders. Adoption of our products, services, and platform helps our customers increase productivity and efficiency, reduce rework and costly delays, improve safety and compliance, and enhance financial transparency and accountability. In short, we build the software for the people that build the world. Our customers range from small businesses managing a few million dollars of annual construction volume to global enterprises managing billions of dollars of annual construction volume. Our core customers are owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors operating across the residential, and non-residential segments of the construction industry. We primarily sell subscriptions to access our products through our direct sales team, which is specialized by geography, followed by size and type of stakeholder. Our products are offered on our cloud-based platform and are designed to be easy to configure and deploy. Our users can access our products on computers, smartphones, and tablets through any web browser or from our mobile application available for both the iOS and Android platforms. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products. We primarily sell our products on a subscription basis for a fixed fee with pricing generally based on the number and mix of products a customer subscribes to and the fixed aggregate dollar volume of construction work contracted to run on our platform annually, which we refer to as annual construction volume. As our customers subscribe to additional products or increase the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform, we generate more revenue. We do not provide refunds for unused construction volume, or charge customers based on consumption or on a per-project basis. Our business model is designed to encourage rapid, widespread adoption of our products by generally allowing for unlimited users, meaning we generally do not charge a per-seat or per-user fee. Customers can, and often do, invite all project participants, including owners, general contractors, specialty contractors, architects, and engineers, to engage with our platform as part of a project team without incurring additional fees. These collaborators engage with our platform for the duration of their involvement in a project, but do not pay us for such use. However, multiple participants can be customers on the same project, which allows each of them to retain access to project information for the duration of their subscription and allows us to receive revenue from multiple customers on the same project. 26 Table of Contents Certain Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers and Retaining and Expanding Existing Customers Use of Our Platform We believe that the market for our platform is large, and we are highly focused on our long-term growth. Our ability to generate revenue, continue to grow our business, and serve the broader needs of the construction industry depends on our ability to efficiently acquire new customers, retain existing customers and expand their use of our products, services, and platform, and maintain or increase the pricing of our products and services. We drive new customer acquisitions by investing across our sales and marketing engine to engage prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our products, services, and platform. We drive retention of existing customers and expansion of their use of our products, services, and platform by focusing on our customers success. To support these efforts, in July 2024 we began to evolve our GTM operating model by, among other things, transitioning to a general manager model, with general managers for our North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Middle East regions and our public sector business, each of whom is empowered to assess and deploy the appropriate strategies and tactics for customers within their respective regions. We have also added new product and technical specialists to our GTM teams, who we believe can add value for our customers by matching the evolving needs of our customers diverse buyer personas with our products and services, and helping our customers understand and implement the full potential of our platform. Evolving our GTM operating model involves new investment, particularly as we increase our sales headcount, ramp and invest in additional enablement for our sales teams, and add the new specialists to our teams. We believe that these investments will allow us to build stronger and deeper customer relationships and improve our operating efficiency over time which, in turn, will result in better customer experiences and provide additional value to our customers, some of whom continue to face macroeconomic and other pressures that have negatively impacted their spending decisions. We have seen and anticipate continuing to see some disruptions and adverse impacts to our financial and operating results in the near-term as we invest in and implement the evolved GTM operating model. Over the longer term, if we fail to successfully implement, or realize the benefits of, our evolved GTM operating model, or otherwise fail to acquire new customers, retain existing customers, or expand existing customers use of our products, services, and platform, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects will be adversely affected, potentially materially. Notwithstanding these risks, we believe that implementing the evolved GTM operating model will improve our long-term operating efficiency, best position us for sustainable long-term growth, and enhance our ability to capture our large market opportunity. Despite macroeconomic challenges, we have seen an increase in the number of customers that contributed more than $100,000 of annual recurring revenue ("ARR"), which increased from 2,119 as of March 31, 2024 to 2,418 as of March 31, 2025, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 14%. The number of customers on our platform has increased from 16,598 as of March 31, 2024 to 17,306 as of March 31, 2025, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of 4%. All aforementioned customer counts exclude customers acquired from business combinations that do not have standard Procore annual contracts. In addition, our gross retention rate (GRR) was 95% as of both March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. Our GRR reflects only customer losses and does not reflect customer expansion or contraction. We believe our high GRR demonstrates that we serve a vital role in our customers operations, as the vast majority of our customers continue to use our products and platform and to renew their subscriptions. We believe that GRR is a key metric to understand our ability to retain our customer base, to evaluate whether our products and platform are addressing our customers needs throughout the year. To calculate GRR at the end of a particular period, we first calculate our ARR from the cohort of active customers at the end of the period 12 months prior to the end of the period selected. We define ARR at the end of a particular period as the annualized dollar value of our subscriptions from customers as of such period end date. For multi-year subscriptions, ARR at the end of a particular period is measured by using the stated contractual subscription fees as of the period end date on which ARR is measured. For example, if ARR is measured during the first year of a multi-year contract, the first-year subscription fees are used to calculate ARR. ARR at the end of a particular period includes the annualized dollar value of subscriptions for which the term has not ended, and subscriptions for which we are negotiating a subscription renewal. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP or U.S. GAAP) and does not represent our U.S. GAAP revenue on an annualized basis. ARR is not intended to be a replacement or forecast of revenue. We then calculate the value of ARR from any customers whose subscriptions terminated and were not renewed during the 12 months preceding the end of 27 Table of Contents the period selected, which we refer to as cancellations. We then divide (a) the total prior period ARR minus cancellations by (b) the total prior period ARR to calculate GRR. Remaining Performance Obligations Our subscriptions typically have a term of one to three years. The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations (RPO) under our subscriptions represents the contracted transaction price that has not yet been recognized as revenue, which includes deferred revenue and amounts under non-cancelable subscriptions that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Our current RPO (cRPO) represents future revenue under existing contracts that is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months. The following table presents our cRPO and non-current RPO at the end of each period: March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Remaining performance obligations Current $ 842,558 $ 704,656 $ 137,902 20 % Non-current 447,707 302,159 145,548 48 % Total remaining performance obligations $ 1,290,265 $ 1,006,815 $ 283,450 28 % We believe that cRPO is a key metric to track our ability to win fixed revenue commitments from new customers and to expand and retain existing customers. As of March 31, 2025, cRPO increased by $137.9 million, or 20%, year-over-year. Approximately 33% of the increase was attributable to existing customers and 67% was attributable to new customers acquired during the twelve months ended March 31, 2025. We expect RPO to change from period to period primarily due to the size, timing, and duration of new customer contracts and customer renewals. Continued Technology Innovation and Strategic Expansion of Our Products and Services We plan to continue to invest in technology innovation and product development to enhance the capabilities of our platform. Additional features and products will also enable customers and collaborators to manage new workflows on our platform and allow us to attract a broader set of stakeholders. We have introduced and continue to develop new products and services organically and through our acquisitions. We intend to continue to invest in building additional products, services, offerings, features, and functionality that expand our capabilities and facilitate the extension of our platform. For example, in January 2025, we acquired Novorender AS, a 3D viewer and building information modeling platform; in May 2024, we acquired Intelliwave Technologies Inc., a construction materials management company that enhances our Resource Management solution; and in September 2023, we launched Procore Pay, a payment solution that handles all aspects of the payment processes between general contractors and subcontractors. We also intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions and investments in businesses and technologies to drive product and market expansion. While the impact of these developments, including Procore Pay, are not yet material to our business, our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop or acquire, market, and sell existing and new products and services to both new and existing customers. 28 Table of Contents International Growth We see international expansion as a major, and largely greenfield, opportunity for growth as we look to capture a larger part of the worldwide construction market. We have an international sales and marketing presence with offices in Sydney, Australia; Toronto, Canada; London, England; Dublin, Ireland; and Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). As a result of our international efforts, we support multiple languages and currencies. Non-U.S. revenue as a percentage of our total revenue was 15% and 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We determine the percentage of non-U.S. revenue based on the billing location of each customer. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may positively or negatively impact the amount of revenue that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars. Furthermore, we believe global demand for our products, services, and platform will continue to increase as we expand our international sales and marketing efforts, and the awareness of our products, services, and platform grows. However, our ability to conduct our operations internationally will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, currencies, cultures, customs, and commercial markets, as well as differing legal, tax, regulatory, and alternative dispute systems. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant investments in international markets. While these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe they will contribute to our long-term growth. Macroeconomic Factors Macroeconomic factors and geopolitical events that impact the construction industry, such as elevated inflationary pressures and responses by governments to address it, tariffs and trade wars, higher interest rates than we've seen in recent history, elevated recession risk, volatility in capital markets, bank failures, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, global pandemics, evolving and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements, and wars and other conflicts may impact our customers spending, as well as our operating expenses and cash flows. We believe that macroeconomic factors and uncertainty have resulted in cautious customer spending and increased customer pricing sensitivity, contributing to the decline in our cRPO annual growth rate, among other impacts. However, as these and other factors - including tariff policies - evolve, we continue to monitor the ways in which they may directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A, of our 2024 Form 10-K for further discussion. 29 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products and related support. Subscriptions are sold for a fixed fee and revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription. Our subscriptions generally have annual or multi-year terms, are typically subject to renewal at the end of the subscription term, and are non-cancelable. To the extent we invoice our customers in advance of revenue recognition, we record deferred revenue. Consequently, a portion of the revenue that we report each period is attributable to the recognition of revenue previously deferred related to subscriptions that we entered into during previous periods. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of personnel-related compensation expenses for our customer support team, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, commissions, and bonuses. Additionally, cost of revenue includes non-personnel-related expenses, such as third-party hosting costs, amortization of capitalized software development costs related to our platform, amortization of acquired technology intangible assets, software license fees, and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of revenue to increase on an absolute dollar basis as our revenue and acquisition activities increase. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in platform hosting, customer support, and software development as we grow our business, evolve our GTM operating model, and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our products. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Costs related to the development of internal-use software for new products and major platform enhancements are capitalized until the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized software development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the developed softwares estimated useful life of two years and the amortization is recorded in cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. For each of these categories of expense, personnel-related compensation expenses are the most significant component, which include salaries, stock-based compensation, commissions, benefits, payroll taxes, and bonuses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our sales and marketing organizations. Additionally, sales and marketing expenses include non-personnel-related expenses, such as advertising costs, marketing events, travel, trade shows, and other marketing activities; contractor costs to supplement our staff levels; consulting services; amortization of acquired customer relationship intangible assets; and allocated overhead. We expense advertising and other promotional expenditures as incurred. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, as our business continues to grow, as we evolve our GTM operating model, and as we increase our investment in sales and marketing to drive customer growth. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our engineering, product, and design teams, net of capitalized software development costs. Additionally, research and development expenses include non-personnel-related expenses, such as contractor costs to supplement our staff levels; computer software expenses; consulting services; amortization of certain acquired intangible assets used in research and development activities; and allocated overhead. We expect research and development expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future as we continue to build, enhance, maintain, and scale our products, services, and platform. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses for our information technology, human resources, finance, legal, executive, and other administrative functions. Additionally, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel-related expenses, such as professional fees for audit, legal, tax, and other external consulting services; computer software expenses; costs associated with operating as a public company, including insurance costs, professional services, investor relations, and other compliance costs; property and use taxes; licenses; travel and entertainment costs; acquisition-related transaction expenses; and allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase on an absolute dollar basis and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue, as our business continues to grow, including in relation to our international expansion. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our marketable securities, money market funds, and cash savings accounts. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of costs associated with our finance leases. Accretion Income, Net Accretion income, net consists of accretion of discounts, net of amortization of premiums, related to our available-for-sale marketable debt securities. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net primarily consists of gains or losses on foreign currency transactions, unrealized gains or losses on equity securities, and miscellaneous other income and expenses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes of U.S. state franchise taxes and certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. As we expand our international operations, we expect to incur increased foreign tax expenses. We have a full valuation allowance for net U.S. deferred tax assets. The U.S. valuation allowance primarily includes net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development for our operations in the U.S. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for our net U.S. deferred tax assets for the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated. Certain percentages below may not sum due to rounding. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 310,632 $ 269,428 Cost of revenue(1)(2)(3) 64,926 45,723 Gross profit 245,706 223,705 Operating expenses Sales and marketing(1)(2)(3)(4) 138,684 120,994 Research and development(1)(2)(3)(4) 87,609 70,599 General and administrative(1)(3)(4) 55,658 51,018 Total operating expenses 281,951 242,611 Loss from operations (36,245) (18,906) Interest income 5,997 5,938 Interest expense (285) (479) Accretion income, net 2,447 3,088 Other income (expense), net 391 (344) Loss before provision for income taxes (27,695) (10,703) Provision for income taxes 5,294 263 Net loss $ (32,989) $ (10,966) Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1)(2)(3) 21 % 17 % Gross profit 79 % 83 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing(1)(2)(3)(4) 45 % 45 % Research and development(1)(2)(3)(4) 28 % 26 % General and administrative(1)(3)(4) 18 % 19 % Total operating expenses 91 % 90 % Loss from operations (12 %) (7 %) Interest income 2 % 2 % Interest expense 0 % 0 % Accretion income, net 1 % 1 % Other income (expense), net 0 % 0 % Loss before provision for income taxes (9 %) (4 %) Provision for income taxes 2 % 0 % Net loss (11 %) (4 %) 32 Table of Contents (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense and amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 5,268 $ 3,185 Sales and marketing 14,950 13,020 Research and development 18,424 13,735 General and administrative 12,382 11,729 Total stock-based compensation expense* $ 51,024 $ 41,669 *Includes amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation of $2.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024which was initially capitalized as capitalized software and cloud-computing arrangement implementation costs. (2)Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 7,602 $ 5,885 Sales and marketing 3,305 3,106 Research and development 632 675 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 11,539 $ 9,666 (3)Includes employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 261 $ 212 Sales and marketing 1,131 1,264 Research and development 1,726 1,668 General and administrative 883 1,045 Total employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions $ 4,001 $ 4,189 (4)Includes acquisition-related expenses as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 656 $ 448 Research and development 1,049 General and administrative $ 375 $ Total acquisition-related expenses $ 2,080 $ 448 33 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 310,632 $ 269,428 $ 41,204 15 % During the three months ended March 31, 2025, our revenue increased by $41.2 million, or 15%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, of which approximately 83% was attributable to revenue from existing customers and approximately 17% was attributable to revenue from new customers acquired during the three months ended March 31, 2025. The increase in revenue from existing customers includes the net benefit of a full quarter of subscription revenue in the first quarter of 2025 from customers that were newly acquired or expanded their subscriptions between the beginning of the first quarter of 2024 and the end of the fourth quarter of 2024 and continued or expanded their subscriptions, as applicable, in the first quarter of 2025. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 64,926 $ 45,723 $ 19,203 42 % Gross profit 245,706 223,705 22,001 10 % Gross margin 79 % 83 % The increase in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to an increase of $8.1 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $7.1 million in salaries and wages and $0.9 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in cost of revenue was also attributable to a $5.4 million increase in amortization of capitalized software development costs; a $4.2 million increase in third-party cloud hosting and related services as we grow our customer base; and a $1.7 million increase in amortization of developed technology intangible assets. We increased our cost of revenue headcount by 22% since March 31, 2024, as we continue to invest additional resources in platform hosting, customer support, implementation, and software development to grow our business, evolve our GTM operating model, and ensure that our customers are realizing the full benefit of our products. 34 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 138,684 $ 120,994 $ 17,690 15 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to an increase of $10.6 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $8.8 million in salaries and wages and $1.9 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was also attributable to a $3.9 million increase in professional fees, including increases of $2.2 million for professional service fees and $1.5 million for contractors to supplement our staff levels; a $2.8 million increase in travel-related costs; and a $1.4 million increase in marketing events and expenses. We increased our sales and marketing headcount by 10% since March 31, 2024 to support our GTM operating model. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 87,609 $ 70,599 $ 17,010 24 % The increase in research and development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to an increase of $12.8 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $8.1 million in salaries and wages and $4.6 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in research and development expenses was also attributable to a $2.8 million increase in professional fees for contractors to supplement our staff levels, and a $1.2 million increase in computer software expenses. We increased our research and development headcount by 55% since March 31, 2024 in order to continue to build, enhance, maintain, and scale our products, services, and platform as part of our global workforce strategy. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 55,658 $ 51,018 $ 4,640 9 % The increase in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase of $2.0 million in personnel-related expenses, including increases of $1.5 million in salaries and wages and $0.6 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in general and administrative expenses was also attributable to a $2.7 million increase in professional fees, including increases of $1.5 million for legal and other professional services and $0.9 million for contractors to supplement our staff levels; and a $1.3 million increase in computer software expenses. The increases in general and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in rent expense, primarily related to modifications of leases in the first quarter of 2025. We decreased our general and administrative headcount by 2% since March 31, 2024, as we continue to focus on operating efficiency. 35 Table of Contents Interest Income, Interest Expense, Accretion Income, Net, Other Income (Expense), Net, and Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Dollar Percent (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 5,997 $ 5,938 $ 59 1 % Interest expense 285 479 (194) (41 %) Accretion income, net 2,447 3,088 (641) (21 %) Other income (expense), net 391 (344) 735 * Provision for income taxes 5,294 263 5,031 1,913 % *Percentage not meaningful During the three months ended March 31, 2025, accretion income, net increased by $0.6 million due to an increase both in our purchases of marketable securities and the balance of our marketable securities portfolio year over year. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, provision for income taxes increased by $5.0 million primarily due to a foreign tax on the transfer from Norway to the U.S. of intellectual property acquired from Novorender. 36 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we believe certain non-GAAP measures, as described below, are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use this non-GAAP financial information, collectively, to evaluate our ongoing operations as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, is helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance, and may assist in comparisons with other companies, some of which use similar non-GAAP financial information to supplement their GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies since other companies may calculate such non-GAAP financial measures differently, and non-GAAP financial measures exclude expenses that may have a material impact on our reported financial results. Unlike stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax related to employee stock transactions is a cash expense that we will continue to incur in the future. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Non-GAAP Gross Profit, Non-GAAP Gross Margin, Non-GAAP Operating Expenses, Non-GAAP Income from Operations, and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define these non-GAAP financial measures as the respective GAAP measures, excluding stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, employer payroll tax related to employee stock transactions, and acquisition-related expenses. Non-GAAP gross margin is the ratio calculated by dividing non-GAAP gross profit by total revenue. Non-GAAP operating margin is the ratio calculated by dividing non-GAAP income from operations by total revenue. Stock-based compensation expense includes the net effects of capitalization and amortization of stock-based compensation expense related to capitalized software and cloud-computing arrangement implementation costs. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of the compensation provided to our employees. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions, and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a companys non-cash expenses, we believe that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation expense allows for meaningful comparisons between our operating results from period to period. The expense related to amortization of acquired intangible assets is a non-cash expense and is dependent upon estimates and assumptions, which can vary significantly and are unique to each asset acquired; therefore, we believe that non-GAAP measures that adjust for the amortization of acquired intangible assets provide investors a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on restricted stock unit settlements, option exercises, related stock price, and other factors that are beyond our control and that do not correlate to the operation of our business. When evaluating the performance of our business and making operating plans, we do not consider these items (for example, when considering the impact of equity award grants, we place a greater emphasis on overall stockholder dilution than the accounting charges associated with such grants). Since the amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is highly variable due to factors outside our control, and unrelated to our core operations, operating results, revenue-generating activities, business strategy, industry, or regulatory environment, management does not consider employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions in the evaluation of the business or in making operating plans. Accordingly, we believe this adjustment in arriving at our non-GAAP measures provides investors with a better understanding of the performance of our core business in a manner that is consistent with managements view of the business. Acquisition-related expenses include external and incremental transaction costs, such as legal and due diligence costs, and retention or other compensation payments. These expenses are unpredictable and generally would not have otherwise been incurred in the 37 Table of Contents periods presented as part of our continuing operations. In addition, the size and complexity of an acquisition, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related expenses, may not be indicative of such future costs. We believe excluding acquisition-related expenses facilitates the comparison of our financial results to our historical operating results and to other companies in our industry. Overall, we believe it is useful to exclude these expenses in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results period-over-period and to those of peer companies. The following tables present reconciliations of our GAAP financial measures to our non-GAAP financial measures for the periods presented: Reconciliation of gross profit and gross margin to non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 310,632 $ 269,428 Gross profit 245,706 223,705 Stock-based compensation expense 5,268 3,185 Amortization of acquired technology intangible assets 7,602 5,885 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 261 212 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 258,837 $ 232,987 Gross margin 79 % 83 % Non-GAAP gross margin 83 % 86 % 38 Table of Contents Reconciliation of operating expenses to non-GAAP operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 310,632 $ 269,428 GAAP sales and marketing 138,684 120,994 Stock-based compensation expense (14,950) (13,020) Amortization of acquired intangible assets (3,305) (3,106) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (1,131) (1,264) Acquisition-related expenses (656) (448) Non-GAAP sales and marketing $ 118,642 $ 103,156 GAAP sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue 45 % 45 % Non-GAAP sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue 38 % 38 % GAAP research and development $ 87,609 $ 70,599 Stock-based compensation expense (18,424) (13,735) Amortization of acquired intangible assets (632) (675) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (1,726) (1,668) Acquisition-related expenses (1,049) Non-GAAP research and development $ 65,778 $ 54,521 GAAP research and development as a percentage of revenue 28 % 26 % Non-GAAP research and development as a percentage of revenue 21 % 20 % GAAP general and administrative $ 55,658 $ 51,018 Stock-based compensation expense (12,382) (11,729) Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions (883) (1,045) Acquisition-related expenses (375) Non-GAAP general and administrative $ 42,018 $ 38,244 GAAP general and administrative as a percentage of revenue 18 % 19 % Non-GAAP general and administrative as a percentage of revenue 14 % 14 % 39 Table of Contents Reconciliation of loss from operations and operating margin to non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 310,632 $ 269,428 Loss from operations (36,245) (18,906) Stock-based compensation expense 51,024 41,669 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 11,539 9,666 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 4,001 4,189 Acquisition-related expenses 2,080 448 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 32,399 $ 37,066 Operating margin (12 %) (7 %) Non-GAAP operating margin 10 % 14 % 40 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $698.8 million, which were held in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, corporate notes and obligations, commercial paper, checking accounts, and savings accounts. Our investments in marketable securities are exposed to interest rate risk; however, due to the short-term nature of our investments, we do not anticipate being exposed to material risks due to changes in interest rates. As of March 31, 2025, we had outstanding letters of credit on an unsecured basis totaling approximately $6.0 million to secure various leased office facilities in the U.S. and Australia. Our cash sources primarily consist of cash generated from sales to our customers, maturities of our marketable securities, proceeds from employees through stock option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), and interest income on our marketable securities, money market funds, and savings account balances. Our cash requirements are primarily for operating expenses, which include personnel-related costs, purchase obligations primarily for hosting and software license and other services, lease obligations, and capital expenditures for our employees and offices. We also fund investments which help drive our strategic business growth through acquisitions and investments in equity securities and limited partnership funds. In February 2025, we began using cash to fund withholding taxes due upon the vesting of employee RSUs by net share settlement, rather than our previous approach of selling shares of our common stock issued to employees to cover applicable withholding taxes. Starting in March 2025, we also began using our cash to fund repurchases under our stock repurchase program. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we had additional contractual commitments primarily related to our modified office leases in Austin, Texas to adjust the rent obligations, expand the leased premises, and extend the lease terms; and a hosting services renewal agreement resulting in a non-cancellable purchase commitment. In the next 12 months, we have a net tenant improvement reimbursement from operating leases of $9.2 million relating to the modified office leases in Austin, and non-cancellable purchase commitments of $30.0 million. Beyond the next 12 months, we have additional net contractual commitments for operating lease obligations of $31.2 million relating to the modified office leases in Austin, and non-cancellable purchase commitments of $64.0 million. In April 2025, the Company further modified its office leases in Austin, Texas to expand the leased premises on favorable terms, which resulted in an additional $17.4 million in future rent commitments, net of tenant improvement reimbursement, from April 2025 through 2038. There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations from those discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2024 Form 10-K. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. While we have generated positive cash flows from operations in recent years, we have continued to generate losses from operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.3 billion as of March 31, 2025. We may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. This assessment is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our additional future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, new customer acquisition and subscription renewal activity, timing of billing activities, our ability to integrate the companies or technologies we acquire and realize strategic and financial benefits from our investments and acquisitions, other strategic transactions or investments we may enter into, the volume and timing of any stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program, the timing and extent of spending to support further sales and marketing and research and development efforts, general and administrative expenses to support our growth, including international expansion, and inflation. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing to fund these activities. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or on acceptable terms, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As of March 31, 2025, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 41 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 66,028 $ 69,145 Net cash used in investing activities (63,511) (4,670) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (126,380) 6,676 Operating Activities Our largest source of cash from operating activities is collections from the sales of subscriptions to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel expenses, marketing expenses, hosting and software license expenses, and overhead. Net cash provided by operating activities was $66.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 which resulted from a net loss of $33.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $75.0 million and a net cash inflow of $24.0 million from changes in operating expenses and liabilities. The $24.0 million of net cash inflows provided as a result of changes in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflected a $86.3 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and cash receipts from customers, which was partially offset by the following: a $26.6 million decrease in deferred revenue primarily due to timing of billings and seasonality; a $11.1 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to timing of cash payments to our vendors; a $9.9 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the size and timing of bonus and commission accruals and payouts, accrued ESPP contributions, payroll, and cash payments to our vendors; a $7.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily due to timing of cash payments to our vendors; and a $6.6 million increase in deferred contract cost assets related to commissions as a result of additional customer contracts closed and a higher capitalization rate during the period. Net cash provided by operating activities was $69.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, which resulted from a net loss of $11.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $60.6 million and net cash inflows of $19.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The $19.5 million of net cash inflows provided as a result of changes in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflected the following: a $68.0 million decrease in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and cash receipts from customers; and a $3.2 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to timing of cash payments to our vendors. These changes in our operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by the following: a $34.2 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the size and timing of bonus and commission accruals and payouts, accrued ESPP contributions, payroll, and cash payments to our vendors; a $14.1 million decrease in deferred revenue primarily due to timing of billings and seasonality; and a $2.3 million decrease in operating lease liabilities related to lease payments. 42 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $63.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 consisted of cash outflows for purchases of marketable securities of $134.6 million, business combinations of $41.3 million, capitalized software development costs of $15.3 million, asset acquisitions of $3.5 million, purchases of property and equipment of $4.0 million, and purchases of strategic investments of $0.6 million; partially offset by maturities of marketable securities of $135.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $4.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $101.4 million, capitalized software development costs of $9.5 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $2.1 million primarily related to improvements to our leased offices and computer equipment purchases, partially offset by $107.3 million in maturities of marketable securities, and $1.3 million of customer repayments for materials financing. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $126.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025 consisted of repurchases of our common stock of $100.0 million, payments of tax withholding for net share settlement of $28.3 million, and payments on our finance lease obligations of $0.4 million; partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises of $2.3 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $6.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 consisted of $7.1 million in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by $0.4 million in payments on our finance lease obligations. Capital Allocation Strategy We have a balanced approach to capital allocation based on the following priorities: driving organic and efficient revenue growth; investing in accretive mergers and acquisitions; and returning capital to stockholders through regular evaluation of stock repurchases, as appropriate. Stock Repurchase Program On October 29, 2024, our board of directors (the Board) authorized a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. We intend to opportunistically repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time through the open market (including via pre-set trading plans), or other transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, in each case, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other relevant factors. The timing of stock repurchases and the actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and alternative investment opportunities, and will be subject to the discretion of our management within its authorization. The stock repurchase program will be funded using our working capital. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any particular number of shares of our common stock, or any shares at all. The stock repurchase program expires on October 29, 2025, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion and without notice. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased and retired a total of 1,450,591 shares of our common stock at a weighted average per share price of $68.96 for an aggregate amount of $100.0 million, which includes the transaction costs associated with the repurchases but excludes the 1% excise tax on stock repurchases imposed by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those accounting policies and estimates that are both the most important to the portrayal of our net assets and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates are developed based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Critical accounting estimates are accounting estimates where the nature of the estimates is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change and the impact of the estimates on financial condition or operating performance is material. 43 Table of Contents Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our critical accounting policies and more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements are discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2024 Form 10-K. There have been no significant changes to these policies for the three months ended March 31, 2025. 44 Table of Contents