Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should review the disclosure under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments, except as required by law. A discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 is presented below. A discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 has been reported previously under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 4, 2022. Overview Our mission is to connect everyone in construction on a global platform. We are a leading provider of cloud-based construction management software, and are helping transform one of the oldest, largest, and least digitized industries in the world. We focus exclusively on connecting and empowering the construction industrys key stakeholders, such as owners, general contractors, specialty contractors, architects, and engineers, to collaborate and access our capabilities from any location, on any internet-connected device. Our platform is modernizing and digitizing construction management by enabling real-time access to critical project information, simplifying complex workflows, and facilitating seamless communication among key stakeholders, all of which we believe positions us to serve as the system of record for the construction industry. We are also developing other programs and services, such as our materials financing program, to address related challenges faced by the construction industrys key stakeholders. Adoption of our products, services, and platform helps our customers increase productivity and efficiency, reduce rework and costly delays, improve safety and compliance, and enhance financial transparency and accountability. In short, we build the software for the people that build the world. We serve customers ranging from small businesses managing a few million dollars of annual construction volume to global enterprises managing billions of dollars of annual construction volume. Our core customers are owners, general contractors, and specialty contractors operating across the commercial, residential, industrial, and infrastructure segments of the construction industry. We primarily sell subscriptions to access our products through our direct sales team, which is specialized by stakeholder, region, size, and type. Our products are offered on our cloud-based platform and are designed to be easy to configure and deploy. Our users can access our products on computers, smartphones, and tablets through any web browser or from our mobile application available for both the iOS and Android platforms. We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to access our products and have an unlimited user model that is designed to facilitate adoption and maximize usage of our platform by all project stakeholders. We primarily sell our products on a subscription basis for a fixed fee with pricing generally based on the number and mix of products and the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform. As our customers subscribe to additional products or increase the annual construction volume contracted to run on our platform, we generate more revenue. We do not provide refunds for unused construction volume, or charge customers based on consumption or on a per project basis. Subscriptions to access our products include customer support and allow for unlimited users as we do not charge a per-seat or per-user fee. Customers can invite all project participants to engage with our platform as part of a project team, including customers employees and collaborators, who are other project participants who engage with our platform but do not pay us for such use. Further, multiple stakeholders can be customers on the same project and retain access to project information for the duration of their subscription. 41 Certain Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers and Retaining and Expanding Existing Customers Use of Our Platform We are highly focused on continuing to acquire new customers to support our long-term growth. We intend to efficiently drive new customer acquisitions by continuing to invest across our sales and marketing engine to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our products, services, and platform. We added 2,295 net new customers in 2022, including 189 customers from LaborChart when it was integrated into the sales process in the third quarter of 2022. The number of customers on our platform has increased from 10,166 as of December 31, 2020, to 12,193 as of December 31, 2021, to 14,488 as of December 31, 2022, reflecting year-over-year growth rates of 20% in 2021 and 19% in 2022. All customer counts aforementioned exclude customers acquired from Levelset and Esticom which have not yet been renewed onto standard Procore annual contracts. Remaining Levelset and Esticom legacy customers will be included in our customer metrics once they are renewed onto standard Procore annual contracts or upon integration of the sales process. We define ARR at the end of a particular period as the annualized dollar value of our subscriptions from customers as of such period end date. For multi-year subscriptions, ARR at the end of a particular period is measured by using the stated contractual subscription fees as of the period end date on which ARR is measured. For example, if ARR is measured during the first year of a multi-year contract, the first-year subscription fees are used to calculate ARR. ARR at the end of a particular period includes the annualized dollar value of subscriptions for which the term has not ended, and subscriptions for which we are negotiating a subscription renewal. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP or U.S. GAAP) and does not represent our GAAP revenue on an annualized basis. ARR is not intended to be a replacement or forecast of revenue. We use a gross retention rate to measure our ability to retain our customers. Our gross retention rate reflects only customer losses and does not reflect customer expansion or contraction. We believe our high gross retention rates demonstrate that we serve a vital role in our customers operations, as the vast majority of our customers continue to use our products and platform and renew their subscriptions. To calculate our gross retention rate at the end of a particular period, we first calculate the ARR from the cohort of active customers at the end of the period 12 months prior to the end of the period selected. We then calculate the value of ARR from any customers whose subscriptions terminated and were not renewed during the 12 months preceding the end of the period selected, which we refer to as churn. We then divide (a) the total prior period ARR minus churn by (b) the total prior period ARR to calculate the gross retention rate. Our gross retention rate was 95% as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. Our ability to continue to grow our business and serve the broader needs of the construction industry depends on acquiring new customers, customers purchasing new products or signing up for new services, customers renewing and expanding their use of existing products and services, and maintaining or increasing the price of our existing products and services. Continued Technology Innovation and Strategic Expansion of Our Products and Services We plan to continue to invest in technology innovation and product development to enhance the capabilities of our platform. Additional features and products will also enable customers and collaborators to manage new workflows on our platform and allow us to attract a broader set of stakeholders. We have introduced new products and services developed in-house and through our acquisitions of Zimfly, Inc., Honest Buildings, Construction BI, LLC, Esticom, LaborChart, and Levelset. In connection with our acquisition of Levelset, we assumed, and continue to develop, a materials financing program for our customers. Purchasers of construction materials, typically specialty contractors, generally pay their materials suppliers on 30-day payment terms but typically do not recoup their costs for such materials for 60 to 120 days after they submit invoices for those materials to the general contractors. This disconnect between payment terms set by suppliers and when specialty contractors receive payment for those materials can pose risk and uncertainty to specialty contractors and their ability to manage their cash flow. Our materials financing program facilitates the purchase of construction materials from fulfillment partners (our suppliers) on behalf of our customers, allowing such customers to pay us for the materials on deferred payment terms. We typically charge an origination fee upon purchase of the materials and a weekly finance charge until receipt of deferred payment in full. We use internal data where available on the performance and payment history of other project participants (like the property owner and general contractor) who are involved in the construction project to help determine whether to provide materials financing for a given project, and we secure such financing with mechanics lien rights. In circumstances of customer non-payment, our lien rights help enforce payment collections from property owners, lenders, and general contractors who are involved in such project, which in turn strengthens the collectability of amounts we finance for our customers. We are currently using capital from our balance sheet for our materials financing program. Ultimately, we anticipate partnering with a capital provider at the appropriate time to dedicate the financing needed to scale this program. Until that time, 42 we may use up to approximately 10% of our current cash , cash equivalents, and marketable securities position to support the program. We intend to continue to invest in building additional products, financial offerings, features, and functionality that expand our capabilities and facilitate the extension of our platform. We also intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions and investments in businesses and technologies to drive product and market expansion. Our acquisitions of LaborChart and Levelset closed in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2021, and, as such, expenses, both in dollars and as a percentage of total revenues, increased and may continue to increase from historical periods. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop or acquire, market, and sell existing and new products and services to both new and existing customers. International Growth We see international expansion as a major, and largely greenfield, opportunity for growth as we look to capture a larger part of the worldwide construction market. We have started to grow our presence internationally with the opening of sales and marketing offices in Sydney, Australia and Vancouver and Toronto, Canada in 2017; London, England in 2018; Mexico City, Mexico in 2019; and Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; and Dubai, UAE in 2022. We have also developed focused sales and marketing efforts in Germany, where we do not yet maintain an office location. As a result of our international efforts, we support multiple languages and currencies. Non-U.S. revenue as a percentage of our total revenue was 14% in 2022, 15% in 2021, and 12% in 2020. We determine the percentage of non-U.S. revenue based on the billing location of each subscription. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may positively or negatively impact the amount of revenue that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. dollars. Furthermore, we believe global demand for our products, services, and platform will continue to increase as we expand our international sales and marketing efforts, and the awareness of our products, services, and platform grows. However, our ability to conduct our operations internationally will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, currencies, cultures, customs, legal, tax and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems, and commercial markets. We have made, and plan to continue to make, significant investments in existing and select additional international markets. While these investments may adversely affect our operating results in the near term, we believe they will contribute to our long-term growth. Macroeconomic Factors and COVID-19 Update Macroeconomic factors such as rising inflation, rising interest rates, volatility in capital markets, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, may impact our operating expenses, customers spending, and cash flows. We do not currently believe that these macroeconomic factors have had a material impact on our business; however, as they develop, we continue to monitor the ways in which such factors may directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the section titled