Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" of this Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Risk Factor Summary Our businesses are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Any of the following risk factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not all inclusive, but represent the risks that we currently believe are material. There may be additional risks that we do not currently consider to be material or of which we are not currently aware. Any of these risks, as well as the risks described below, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results and could materially and adversely affect several aspects of our performance. Risks Related to our Businesses, Regulatory Environment and Industry Our businesses are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including laws and regulations unique to the industries in which our businesses operate, that may subject them to government investigations and significant monetary penalties and compliance-related burdens. Progressive Leasing serves subprime consumers, and its lease-to-own business model poses inherent risks that may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Inflation, rising interest rates, and other adverse macro-economic conditions, including a prolonged recession, may adversely affect consumer confidence and demand for the products and services offered by our Progressive Leasing, Vive and Four businesses. Our customers' inability to make the payments they owe our Progressive Leasing, Vive and Four businesses due to inflation, rising interest rates and other adverse macro-economic conditions may unfavorably impact our overall financial performance. Given the deteriorating macro-economic environment, our proprietary algorithms and decisioning tools used in approving Progressive Leasing and Vive customers may no longer be indicative of their ability to perform. A large percentage of Progressive Leasings revenue, which represents approximately 97% of PROG Holdings' consolidated revenue, is concentrated with several key point-of-sale partners (whom we refer to as our "POS partners)." Progressive Leasing may be unable to attract additional POS partners and consumers and to retain and grow its existing POS and consumer relationships. The business models for our Vive and Four businesses differ significantly from Progressive Leasings lease-to-own business, which creates specific and unique risks including significantly different regulatory risks, particularly at the federal level. Interruptions, inventory shortages and other factors affecting the supply chains of our retail partners may have a material and adverse effect on several aspects of our performance. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, a material and adverse effect on several aspects of our performance. 3 Our capital allocation strategy and financial policies, including our current stock repurchase program, as well as any potential debt repurchase or dividend programs, may not be effective at enhancing shareholder value, or providing other benefits we expect. Our cost reduction initiatives may not be adequate or may have unintended consequences that could be disruptive to our businesses. The loss of the services of our key executives or our inability to attract and retain key talent, particularly with respect to our information technology function, may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our failure to successfully compete in our highly competitive industry may harm several aspects of our performance. The effects of Progressive Leasings 2020 settlement with the FTC are not certain. The transactions offered to consumers by Progressive Leasing, Vive and Four may be negatively characterized by government officials, consumer advocacy groups and the media. Any significant disruption in, or errors in, service on Progressive Leasings, Vives or Fours platforms or relating to vendors, including events beyond their control, may prevent Progressive Leasing, Vive or Four from processing transactions (including making accurate lease and loan decisioning). Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to prevent losses in the event we experience a significant disruption in, or errors in, service on Progressive Leasings, Vives or Fours platforms. Real or perceived software errors, failures, bugs, defects, or outages may adversely affect Progressive Leasing, Vive and/or Four. The ability of Progressive Leasing, Vive and Four to protect confidential, proprietary, or sensitive information, including the confidential information of their customers, may be adversely affected by cyber-attacks, employee or other internal misconduct, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar disruptions. Consumer identity fraud may adversely affect the performance of our businesses' lease and loan portfolios. E-commerce lease and loan origination processes may give rise to greater risks than in-store originations and processes. The geographic concentration of Progressive Leasings POS partners may magnify the impact of conditions in a particular region, including economic downturns and other occurrences. Our results largely depend on prominent presentation, integration, and support of Progressive Leasing and Vive's products and services by POS partners. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our current and future business plans and strategies, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The portion of our indebtedness that is variable in nature subjects us to interest rate risk, which may cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Risks Related to the Spin-Off of The Aarons Company, Inc. In connection with the spin-off of The Aarons Company, Inc. in November 2020 (the "Spin-Off"), The Aarons Company agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify The Aarons Company for certain liabilities. If the Spin-Off does not ultimately qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we or our shareholders may be subject to significant tax liabilities. Potential liabilities in connection with the Spin-Off may arise under fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws and legal capital requirements. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the "Company," "we," "us," "our" and similar expressions are references to PROG Holdings, Inc. ("PROG Holdings") and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview PROG Holdings is a financial technology holding company that provides transparent and competitive payment options to consumers. PROG Holdings' operating segments include Progressive Leasing, an in-store, app-based, and e-commerce point-of-sale lease-to-own solutions provider, Vive Financial ("Vive"), an omnichannel provider of second-look revolving credit products, and Four Technologies, Inc. ("Four"), which offers Buy Now, Pay Later payment options to consumers through the Four platform. The Progressive Leasing segment comprised approximately 97% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022. Progressive Leasing provides consumers with lease-purchase solutions for merchandise, including furniture, appliances, electronics, jewelry, mobile phones and accessories, mattresses, and automobile electronics and accessories from leading traditional and e-commerce retailers (whom we refer to as our point-of-sale partners, "POS partners," or "retail partners"). Many of our customers fall within the near-prime or subprime Fair Isaac and Company ("FICO") score categories and may have difficulty purchasing big-ticket and other durable goods they desire. Progressive Leasing's technology-based, proprietary decisioning platform offers prompt lease decisioning at the point-of-sale and is integrated with both traditional and e-commerce POS partners systems. Progressive Leasing provides customers with transparent and competitive lease payment options along with flexible terms that are designed to help customers achieve merchandise ownership, including through low initial payments and early buyout options. Lease-to-own transactions facilitated through our Company also benefit our POS partners by generating incremental sales to credit-challenged consumers, who typically would not have qualified for financing offers traditionally provided by these retailers. Strategy Our strategy to drive growth in our business, which we believe positions us for success over the long-term, includes the following: 5 Grow our gross merchandise volume ("GMV") through existing merchant partners, new partners, and direct-to-consumer initiatives - We plan to grow GMV through strategic collaboration and marketing efforts with our existing POS partners. We remain focused on converting our pipeline of retailers into new POS partners. Our ability to maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships, including addressing the changing needs of our POS partners, is critical to the long-term growth of our business. We will also continue to expand our direct-to-consumer marketing efforts to attract new customers and drive more GMV through in-store and online retailers. Enhance our industry-leading consumer experience - We are investing in technology platforms that promote customer engagement and simplify the lease application, origination and servicing experience. We are committed to providing our customers with transparency, flexibility, and greater choice on how and where they choose to shop. We are expanding and innovating our e-commerce capabilities to benefit existing and new POS partners and customers. Expand our ecosystem to increase access and deliver more value to our consumers - We expect to broaden our financial technology product ecosystem through research and development ("R&D") efforts and strategic acquisitions that will result in a more loyal and engaged customer base. We will leverage our extensive database of lease agreements to offer current and previous customers products that meet their needs. Operating Segments As of December 31, 2022, the Company has three operating segments: Progressive Leasing, Vive and Four. The Companys two reportable segments are Progressive Leasing and Vive, which is consistent with the current organizational structure and how the chief operating decision maker regularly reviews results to analyze performance and allocate resources. The operating results of our two reportable segments may be found in (i) Item 7 . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (ii)