Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 for additional information. We seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain actual and forecasted transactions of selected currencies (mainly in Europe, Brazil, India and Australia); however, our currency hedging transactions may not be effective in reducing the adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further, as geopolitical volatility around the world increases, there is increasing risk of the imposition of exchange or price controls, or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 16 Revenue forecasting is uncertain, and the failure to meet our forecasts could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues or economic impacts from M&A activities, are difficult to forecast. We use a pipeline system to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and result in a material adverse impact on our business or our planned results of operations. Furthermore, most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth or realize synergies from M&A activity, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet our publicly stated guidance or the expectations of investors or analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: changes in demand for our products; introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; market acceptance of our new products, including acquired products; the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; size and timing of significant orders; a high percentage of our revenue is generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; budgeting cycles of customers; mix of distribution channels; mix of products and services sold; mix of international and North American revenues; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in the level of operating expenses, including unforeseen expenses incurred in connection with items such as cyber security instances; changes in management; restructuring programs; changes in our sales force; completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; integration of acquired businesses or inability to realize expected synergies; customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products announced by us or our competitors; general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business; and other factors such as political or social unrest, terrorist attacks, other hostilities, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, and potential public health crises, such as pandemics. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may be unable at any given time to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation or implementation, may materially adversely affect our reported results of operations or financial position. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our income tax returns are routinely subject to audits by tax authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine our tax estimates, a final determination of tax audits that is inconsistent with such assessments or tax disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws including Pillar Two legislation adopted as part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) inclusion Framework, which established a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% for certain multinational enterprises, or the interpretation of such laws. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Convertible Senior Notes Our indebtedness and liabilities could limit the cash flow available for our operations and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of November 30, 2024, we had approximately $1.5 billion of consolidated indebtedness. We may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant adverse consequences for our security holders and our business, results of operations and financial condition by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business; diluting the interests of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $360 million, due April 15, 2026, and an aggregate principal amount of $450 million, due March 1, 2030 (together, the "Notes"); and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with competitors that are less leveraged than us or have better access to capital. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our current or future indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient funds, and we may otherwise be unable to maintain sufficient cash reserves, to pay amounts due under our current or future indebtedness, including the Notes, and our cash needs may increase in the future. In addition, our credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness that we may incur may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, raise capital or make payments under our other indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants or to make payments under our indebtedness when due, then we would be in default under that indebtedness, which could, in turn, result in that and our other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our Credit Facility and to make scheduled debt payments as they become due; any failure to comply with those covenants or to make scheduled payments could cause amounts borrowed under the facility to become immediately due and payable or prevent us from borrowing under the facility. In March 2024, we entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which provides for a $900.0 million secured revolving credit facility (which may be increased if the existing or additional lenders are willing to make such increased commitments) (the "Credit Facility"). This Credit Facility matures in March 2029, at which time any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. We may wish to borrow additional amounts under the facility in the future to support our operations, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases. We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants and to make scheduled repayments of our term loan, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. The capped call transactions may affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain financial institutions ("option counterparties"). The capped call transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/ 18 or offset subject to a cap. From time to time, the option counterparties that are parties to the capped call transactions or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes. This activity could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Noteholders may require us to repurchase their Notes following a fundamental change at a cash repurchase price generally equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, all conversions of Notes will be settled partially or entirely in cash. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase the Notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion. In addition, applicable law, regulatory authorities and the agreements governing our other indebtedness may restrict our ability to repurchase the Notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion. Our failure to repurchase Notes or to pay the cash amounts due upon conversion when required will constitute a default under the indenture governing the terms of the Notes. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, which may result in that other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full. If the repayment of such other indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, then we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon their conversion. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions, and the capped call may not operate as planned. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the capped call transactions with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price subject to the cap and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Provisions in the indenture could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover of us. Certain provisions in the Notes and the indenture could make a third party attempt to acquire us more difficult or expensive. For example, if a takeover constitutes a fundamental change, then Noteholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes for cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, then we may be required to temporarily increase the conversion rate. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that Noteholders or holders of our common stock may view as favorable. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we do not have any open comments from the SEC related to our financial statements or periodic filings. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We maintain a comprehensive cybersecurity program and continuously assess our approach against industry best practices. Our focus on cybersecurity risk management, including risk identification, analysis, and response, centers on the following areas: Enterprise security: We reference industry-accepted control frameworks, compliance regulations, privacy requirements and best practices. Product security: Our development teams participate in regular training and adopt industry best practices to enhance the security of our product portfolio. Threat landscape analysis: We continuously assess emerging threat vectors and the evolving data privacy regulatory environment. Incident response: We continuously monitor the threat landscape and our systems in coordination with an external monitoring firm and regularly test our incident response preparedness. 19 We actively participate in the cybersecurity community to stay current regarding best practices and continuously improve our security awareness posture. Our employees are engaged in security and privacy awareness training to enhance the protection of our systems and data. In addition, we incorporate data and privacy protection education in our customer engagement through ongoing resources, such as best practices content and security consultations. We also assess third-party service providers for cybersecurity risks at onboarding, refreshing as needed throughout our engagement. We also engage third-party resources to assist in our cybersecurity program, including annual ISO 27001 assessments of our cybersecurity program, validation of our SOC2 controls operational effectiveness for certain products, and retaining leading cybersecurity experts as needed in response to cybersecurity incidents and for other consultative needs (e.g., due diligence of potential acquisitions). Governance Our multi-level cybersecurity governance and risk management structure begins with our management-level Enterprise Risk Management ("ERM") Committee, which consists of cross-functional management representatives throughout Progress.The ERM Committee receives detailed cybersecurity information from key security personnel, led by our Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO"), and reports to Progress Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Legal Officer, and other members of CEO Staff at least quarterly. Our CISO has significant information technology experience, having served in various roles in information technology and information security for more than 20 years, including serving in various cybersecurity leadership roles within public and private companies. He holds an undergraduate degree in management and obtained CISO Executive Education Certification from Carnegie Mellon University. Cybersecurity leaders reporting to our CISO also have significant relevant experience and industry recognized certifications. Our CISO has routinely reported to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors at the Audit Committees regular quarterly meetings, or more frequently as needed. The Audit Committee's duties include, among other things, oversight of risks related to cybersecurity, as well as our broader ERM program. The Audit Committee communicates regularly with our full Board of Directors, which is ultimately responsible for overall risk oversight for Progress. Additionally, our cybersecurity incident response plans require timely reporting to our Disclosure Committee ("DC") regarding any potentially material cybersecurity incidents. The DC is tasked with evaluating the materiality of any such incidents and is comprised of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Legal Officer, and supported by key leaders across the organization, including our Chief Information Officer and CISO. Notwithstanding our commitments to cybersecurity, we may not be successful in preventing or mitigating a cybersecurity incident that could have a material adverse effect on us. Please see Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of our cybersecurity risks. Item 2. Properties We lease our headquarters facility, which includes administrative, sales, support, marketing, product development and distribution functions, in one building totaling approximately 33,000 square feet in Burlington, Massachusetts. We also maintain offices for administrative, sales, support, marketing, product development and/or distribution purposes in leased facilities in various other locations in North America, including Morrisville and Raleigh, North Carolina, Alpharetta, Georgia, Vienna, Virginia and outside North America, including Sofia, Bulgaria, Limerick, Ireland, Brno, Czech Republic, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, India, Singapore, Singapore and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The terms of our leases generally range from one to fifteen years. At the end of fiscal year 2021, we adopted an approach to work that gives our employees more flexibility to choose where to work. Depending on their role, this means that employees can choose their office location, as well as continue to work from home some or all the time. As of November 30, 2024, we have not terminated any significant lease arrangements. We believe our facilities are adequate for the conduct of our business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 19: Cyber Related Matters to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of legal proceedings related to the MOVEit Vulnerability. 20 We are also subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe that the outcome of any of these legal matters will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market and Stockholders Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PRGS". As of December 31, 2024, our common stock was held by approximately 111 stockholders of record. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds All issuances of unregistered securities during fiscal year 2024, if any, have previously been disclosed in filings with the SEC. Stock Repurchases and Dividends Repurchases of our common stock by month in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024 were as follows: (in thousands, except per share and share data) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs Period September 2024 $ $ 107,220 October 2024 107,220 November 2024 107,220 Total $ $ 107,220 On January 10, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $150.0 million, to an aggregate authorization of $228.0 million. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and the Board of Directors may choose to suspend, expand or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. We have declared aggregate per share quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.53 for the year ended November 30, 2024 and $0.70 for the years ended November 30, 2023 and 2022. We paid aggregate cash dividends totaling $31.5 million, $31.6 million and $31.1 million for the years ended November 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, our Board of Directors suspended our quarterly dividend in connection with the ShareFile acquisition and plans to redirect such capital toward the repayment of debt to increase liquidity for future M&A and for share repurchases, both of which are prioritized in our capital allocation policy. 21 Stock Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer Index for each of the last five fiscal years ended November 30, 2024, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such period and the reinvestment of any dividends. Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return(1) Among Progress Software Corporation, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer Index (1) $100 invested on November 30, 2019 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. November 30, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Progress Software Corporation $ 100.00 $ 97.50 $ 117.80 $ 129.64 $ 130.95 $ 166.08 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 142.38 181.35 133.85 166.04 226.47 NASDAQ Computer 100.00 151.46 215.66 155.04 224.69 316.73 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Progress Software Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended November 30, 2024 compared to the year ended November 30, 2023. For a discussion of the year ended November 30, 2023 compared to the year ended November 30, 2022, please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2023. 22 Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements below about anticipated results and our products and markets are forward-looking statements that are based on our current plans and assumptions. Important information about the bases for these plans and assumptions and factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements is contained below and in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Use of Constant Currency Revenue from our international operations has historically represented a substantial portion of our total revenue. As a result, our revenue results have been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, if the local currencies of our foreign subsidiaries strengthen, our consolidated results stated in U.S. dollars are positively impacted. As exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons, we believe the presentation of revenue growth rates on a constant currency basis enhances the understanding of our revenue results and evaluation of our performance in comparison to prior periods. The constant currency information presented is calculated by translating current period results using prior period weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Overview Progress Software Corporation ("Progress," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our") provides software products that enable our customers to develop, deploy and manage responsible AI-powered applications and digital experiences. A key element of our strategy is centered on the goal of building and maintaining leading products and tools enterprises need to build, deploy, and manage modern, strategic business applications. We offer our products and tools to both new customers and partners, as well as our existing partner and customer ecosystems. Our organizational philosophy and operating principles focus primarily on customer and partner retention and success, and a streamlined operating approach to drive predictable and stable recurring revenue and high levels of profitability. We are pursuing a total growth strategy driven by accretive acquisitions of businesses and products that meet our strict strategic, financial, and operating criteria, which help to further our goal of providing stockholder returns. In April 2019, we acquired Ipswitch; in October 2020, we acquired Chef Software; in November 2021, we acquired Kemp Technologies; in February 2023, we acquired MarkLogic; and in October 2024, we acquired ShareFile. Our capital allocation policy emphasizes accretive M&A, which we believe allows us to expand our business and drive significant stockholder returns. We also utilize share repurchases to return capital to stockholders. We currently intend to continue to repurchase our shares in sufficient quantities to offset dilution from our equity plans and may elect to conduct additional repurchases based on market conditions and other factors. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions meeting our financial criteria that are designed to expand our business and drive significant stockholder returns. As a result, our expected uses of cash could change, our cash position could be reduced, and we may incur additional debt obligations to the extent we complete additional acquisitions. However, we currently believe that existing cash balances, together with funds generated from operations and amounts available under our Credit Facility, will be sufficient to finance our operations and meet our foreseeable cash requirements, including stock repurchases to Progress stockholders, through at least the next twelve months. 23 Results of Operations Business Development On October 31, 2024, we acquired certain assets and liabilities that comprise the ShareFile Business ("ShareFile") from Cloud Software Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Cloud") for an aggregate purchase price of $875.0 million in cash, subject to a $25.0 million working capital credit and certain customary adjustments. The transaction was funded through $730.0 million in borrowings under our existing $900.0 million revolving credit facility and cash on hand, resulting in a payment at closing of $852.7 million. As a result of this acquisition, we recorded $96.2 million of deferred revenue and $465.0 million of intangible assets, as further described in Note 7: Business Combinations. The Company expects to recognize additional services revenue, as well as increased amortization expense and interest expense, in future periods as a result of this acquisition. Fiscal Year 2024 Compared to Fiscal Year 2023 Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 As Reported Constant Currency Revenue $ 753,409 $ 694,439 8 % 8 % The increase in revenue in fiscal year 2024 was driven by the acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, and growth in sales of our OpenEdge product offerings. MarkLogic was acquired in February 2023 and as a result, only contributed approximately ten months to our fiscal year 2023 results. ShareFile was acquired in November 2024 and its one-month contribution to our fiscal year 2024 results is $21.1 million. Software License Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 As Reported Constant Currency License $ 249,331 $ 220,789 13 % 13 % As a percentage of total revenue 33 % 32 % Software license revenue increased in fiscal year 2024 primarily due to the acquisition of MarkLogic, as well as increases in license sales in OpenEdge. Maintenance and Services Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 As Reported Constant Currency Maintenance $ 410,556 $ 401,501 2 % 2 % As a percentage of total revenue 55 % 58 % Services $ 93,522 $ 72,149 30 % 29 % As a percentage of total revenue 12 % 10 % Total maintenance and services revenue $ 504,078 $ 473,650 6 % 6 % As a percentage of total revenue 67 % 68 % Maintenance revenue increased in fiscal year 2024 primarily due to the acquisition of MarkLogic, as well as an increase in maintenance revenue from our OpenEdge product offerings. The increase in maintenance revenue was partially offset by a decrease in Kemp LoadMaster and Chef maintenance revenue. Services revenue increased primarily due to our acquisition of ShareFile. 24 Revenue by Region Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 As Reported Constant Currency North America $ 446,995 $ 411,670 9 % 9 % As a percentage of total revenue 59 % 59 % EMEA $ 245,287 $ 222,862 10 % 9 % As a percentage of total revenue 33 % 32 % Latin America $ 20,305 $ 21,112 (4) % % As a percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Asia Pacific $ 40,822 $ 38,795 5 % 6 % As a percentage of total revenue 5 % 6 % Total revenue generated in North America increased $35.3 million, and total revenue generated outside North America increased $23.6 million, in fiscal year 2024. The increases in North America and EMEA were primarily due to the acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, as well as growth in sales of our OpenEdge product offerings. Revenue from Latin America decreased slightly due to the negative impact of foreign exchange. Revenue from Asia Pacific increased due to contributions from multiple products. Total revenue generated in markets outside North America represented 41% of total revenue in fiscal year 2024 and fiscal year 2023. Cost of Software Licenses Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Change Cost of software licenses $ 10,942 $ 11,153 $ (211) (2) % As a percentage of software license revenue 4 % 5 % Cost of software licenses consists primarily of royalties, electronic software distribution, duplication, and packaging. Cost of software licenses as a percentage of software license revenue varies from period to period depending upon the relative product mix. Cost of Maintenance and Services Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Change Cost of maintenance and services $ 90,318 $ 85,255 $ 5,063 6 % As a percentage of maintenance and services revenue 18 % 18 % Components of cost of maintenance and services: Personnel Related Costs $ 67,732 $ 63,471 $ 4,261 7 % Contractors and Outside Services 12,827 13,969 (1,142) (8) % Hosting and Other 9,759 7,815 1,944 25 % Total cost of maintenance and services $ 90,318 $ 85,255 $ 5,063 6 % Cost of maintenance and services consists primarily of costs of hosting, personnel costs for providing customer support, consulting, and education. The increase year-over-year was primarily due to increased headcount and hosting costs resulting from our acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, partially offset by decreased contractors and outside services costs. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 29,222 $ 30,169 (3) % As a percentage of total revenue 4 % 4 % 25 Amortization of acquired intangibles included in costs of revenue primarily represents the amortization of the value assigned to technology-related intangible assets obtained in business combinations. The year over year decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, partially offset by the addition of MarkLogic and ShareFile acquired intangibles. Gross Profit Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Gross profit $ 622,927 $ 567,862 10 % As a percentage of total revenue 83 % 82 % Our gross profit increased primarily due to the increase in revenue, partially offset by the increase in costs of maintenance and services. Sales and Marketing Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Change Sales and marketing $ 164,570 $ 156,076 $ 8,494 5 % As a percentage of total revenue 22 % 22 % Components of sales and marketing: Personnel related costs $ 142,479 $ 134,820 $ 7,659 6 % Contractors and outside services 3,456 3,890 (434) (11) % Marketing programs and other 18,635 17,366 1,269 7 % Total sales and marketing $ 164,570 $ 156,076 $ 8,494 5 % Sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal year 2024 due to increased personnel related, marketing, and sales events costs associated with our acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, partially offset by decreases in contractors and outside services costs. Product Development Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Change Product development $ 146,342 $ 132,401 $ 13,941 11 % As a percentage of total revenue 19 % 19 % Components of product development costs: Personnel related costs $ 139,646 $ 126,680 $ 12,966 10 % Contractors and outside services 5,651 4,743 908 19 % Other product development costs 1,045 978 67 7 % Total product developments costs $ 146,342 $ 132,401 $ 13,941 11 % Product development expenses increased in fiscal year 2024 primarily due to increased personnel related costs associated with our acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, as well as an increase in contractors and outside services costs. 26 General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Change General and administrative $ 89,518 $ 83,157 $ 6,361 8 % As a percentage of total revenue 12 % 12 % Components of general and administrative: Personnel Related Costs $ 72,911 $ 65,858 $ 7,053 11 % Contractors and Outside Services 12,186 12,888 (702) (5) % Other general and administrative costs 4,421 4,411 10 % Total cost of general and administrative $ 89,518 $ 83,157 $ 6,361 8 % General and administrative expenses include the costs of our finance, human resources, legal, information systems and administrative departments. General and administrative expenses increased in fiscal year 2024 primarily due to higher personnel related costs associated with our acquisitions of MarkLogic and ShareFile, partially offset by a decrease in contractors and outside services costs. Amortization of Intangibles Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Amortization of intangibles $ 65,290 $ 66,430 (2) % As a percentage of total revenue 9 % 10 % Amortization of intangibles included in operating expenses primarily represents the amortization of value assigned to intangible assets obtained in business combinations other than assets identified as purchased technology. The year over year decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, partially offset by the addition of MarkLogic and ShareFile acquired intangibles. Restructuring Expenses Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Restructuring expenses $ 10,454 $ 8,407 24 % As a percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Restructuring expenses recorded in fiscal year 2024 primarily relate to headcount reductions in connection with the restructuring action related to the ShareFile acquisition in November 2024 and to a facility closure in connection with the restructuring action related to the MarkLogic acquisition. See Note 15: Restructuring to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details, including types of expenses incurred and the timing of future expenses and cash payments. Acquisition-Related Expenses Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Acquisition-related expenses $ 17,109 $ 4,704 264 % As a percentage of total revenue 2 % 1 % Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and include those costs incurred as a result of a business combination. These costs primarily consist of professional services fees, including third-party legal and valuation-related fees, as well as retention fees. Acquisition-related expenses in fiscal year 2024 were primarily related to the acquisition of ShareFile, as well as our pursuit of other acquisition opportunities. Acquisition-related expenses in fiscal year 2023 were primarily related to our acquisition of MarkLogic. 27 Cyber Incident and Vulnerability Response Expenses, Net Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Cyber incident and vulnerability responses expenses, net $ 5,641 $ 6,164 (8) % As a percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % As previously disclosed, following (i) the detection of irregular activity on certain portions of our corporate network that was disclosed on December 19, 2022 ("November 2022 Cyber Incident"), and (ii) the discovery of the MOVEit Vulnerability that was disclosed on June 5, 2023, in each instance, we engaged outside cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals to conduct a forensic investigation and assess the extent and scope of these matters. Cyber incident and MOVEit Vulnerability costs relate to the engagement of external cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals and are net of received and expected insurance recoveries. We did not incur costs related to the November 2022 cyber incident during fiscal year 2024 and do not expect to incur additional costs as the investigation is closed. See Note 19: Cyber Related Matters for further discussion. Income from Operations Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Income from operations $ 124,003 $ 110,523 12 % As a percentage of total revenue 16 % 16 % Income from operations increased year over year due to an increase in revenue, offset by an increase in costs of revenue and operating expenses, as shown above. Other (Expense) Income Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Interest expense $ (32,012) $ (30,780) 4 % Interest income and other, net 4,734 2,538 87 % Foreign currency loss, net (2,461) (2,624) (6) % Total other expense, net $ (29,739) $ (30,866) 4 % As a percentage of total revenue (4) % (4) % Total other expense, net, decreased in fiscal year 2024 due to increases in interest income and other, net, resulting from higher interest rates on our invested cash balance. Interest expense increased due to costs associated with drawing on our revolving line of credit to acquire ShareFile, offset by lower interest rates as a result of our debt refinancing in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, in which we issued the 2030 Notes and entered into an amended and restated credit facility. Refer to Note 8: Debt, for further discussion. Foreign currency loss decreased year over year due to rate volatility and timing of intercompany and hedge settlement activities. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Provision for income taxes $ 25,826 $ 9,460 173 % As a percentage of income before income taxes 27 % 12 % Our effective income tax rate was 27% and 12% for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. The primary reason for the increase in the effective rate was due to the increase in tax expense recorded associated with the change in the Companys indefinite reinvestment assertion during 2024. As a result of the ShareFile acquisition, the Company has determined that a substantial portion of unremitted foreign earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested. The Company recorded a liability of $13.7 million related to the taxes expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings that are not considered indefinitely reinvested. 28 Net Income Fiscal Year Ended (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 % Change Net income $ 68,438 $ 70,197 (3) % As a percentage of total revenue 9 % 10 % Select Performance Metrics: Management evaluates our financial performance using a number of financial and operating metrics. These metrics are periodically reviewed and revised to reflect changes in our business. Annualized Recurring Revenue ("ARR") We disclose ARR as a performance metric to help investors better understand and assess the performance of our business because our mix of revenue generated from recurring sources currently represents the substantial majority of our revenues and is expected to continue in the future. We define ARR as the annualized revenue of all active and contractually binding term-based contracts from all customers at a point in time. ARR includes revenue from maintenance, software upgrade rights, public cloud, and on-premises subscription-based transactions and managed services. ARR mitigates fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality, contract term and the sales mix of subscriptions for term-based licenses and SaaS. Management uses ARR to understand customer trends and the overall health of the Companys business, helping it to formulate strategic business decisions. We calculate the annualized value of annual and multi-year contracts, and contracts with terms less than one year, by dividing the total contract value of each contract by the number of months in the term and then multiplying by 12. Annualizing contracts with terms less than one-year results in amounts being included in our ARR that are in excess of the total contract value for those contracts at the end of the reporting period. We generally do not sell non-SaaS-based contracts with a term of less than one year unless a customer is purchasing additional licenses under an existing annual or multi-year contract. The expectation is that at the time of renewal, such contracts with a term less than one year will renew with the same term as the existing contracts being renewed, such that both contracts are co-termed. Historically, such contracts with a term of less than one year renew at rates equal to or better than annual or multi-year contracts. For SaaS-based contracts, there is a meaningful percentage of monthly auto-renewing contracts for which annualizing the contracts results in amounts being included in our ARR that are in excess of the total contract value for those contracts at the end of the reporting period. Revenue from term-based license and on-premises subscription arrangements include a portion of the arrangement consideration that is allocated to the software license that is recognized up-front at the point in time control is transferred under ASC 606 revenue recognition principles. ARR for these arrangements is calculated as described above. The expectation is that the total contract value, inclusive of revenue recognized as software license, will be renewed at the end of the contract term. The calculation is done at constant currency using the current year budgeted exchange rates for all periods presented. ARR is not defined in GAAP and is not derived from a GAAP measure. Rather, ARR generally aligns to billings (as opposed to GAAP revenue which aligns to the transfer of control of each performance obligation). ARR does not have any standardized meaning and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace either of those items. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. Our ARR was $842.0 million and $578.0 million as of November 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, which is an increase of 46% year-over-year. The growth in ARR was primarily driven by the acquisition of ShareFile. Net Retention Rate We calculate net retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end ("Prior Period ARR"). We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end ("Current Period ARR"). Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of contraction or attrition over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the net retention rate. Net retention rate is not calculated in accordance with GAAP. 29 Our net retention rates have generally ranged between 100% and 102% for all periods presented. We believe net retention rates can be a helpful indicator of the durability of top line performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents (in thousands) November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 Cash and cash equivalents $ 118,077 $ 126,958 The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $8.9 million from the end of fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to cash outflows of $852.7 million to acquire ShareFile, $261.3 million to pay off the balance of the term loan, $110.0 million to pay off the revolving line of credit, repurchases of common stock of $86.8 million, dividend payments of $31.5 million, payment of debt issuance costs of $6.8 million, purchases of property and equipment of $5.2 million, and the effect of exchange rates on cash of $3.2 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by $730 million in proceeds from our revolving line of credit to partially fund the acquisition of ShareFile, the issuance of convertible senior notes of $396.5 million (net of purchases of capped calls in connection with the convertible notes offering of $42.2 million and issuance costs of $11.2 million), cash inflows from operations of $211.5 million, and $10.6 million in cash received from the issuance of common stock. We refinanced our debt by issuing the convertible senior notes and used the proceeds to pay off the outstanding balance of the term loan and revolving line of credit under our previous credit agreement. Except as described below, there are no limitations on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $69.2 million at November 30, 2024. As a result of the ShareFile acquisition, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 we determined that a substantial portion of unremitted foreign earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested. As a result of this, we plan to utilize worldwide cash based on the needs of the parent entity. These amounts will be repatriated as needed. Deferred taxes are recorded for earnings of our foreign operations that we determine are not indefinitely reinvested. Refer to Note 16: Income Taxes for further information. Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2024 November 30, 2023 November 30, 2022 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 211,494 $ 173,920 $ 192,160 Net cash flows (used in) from investing activities $ (857,908) $ (360,382) $ 21,992 Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities $ 640,823 $ 51,188 $ (101,423) Cash Flows from Operating Activities The increase in cash generated from operations in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to higher billings and collections, lower taxes paid as compared to fiscal year 2023, and slightly lower interest rates because of our debt refinancing in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024. Our gross accounts receivable as of November 30, 2024, increased by $37.6 million from the end of fiscal year 2023. Days sales outstanding ("DSO") in accounts receivable increased to 67 days as compared to 62 days in fiscal year 2023 due to the timing of billings and collections. In addition, our net deferred revenue as of November 30, 2024, increased by $109.4 million from the end of fiscal year 2023, primarily due to the acquisition of ShareFile in November 2024. Cash Flows (used in) from Investing Activities Net cash outflows and inflows of our net investment activity are generally a result of the timing of our purchases and maturities of securities, which are classified as cash equivalents, as well as the timing of acquisitions and divestitures. Included in investing activities in fiscal years 2024 and 2023 were the acquisitions of ShareFile and MarkLogic for a net cash paid amount of $852.7 million and $355.3 million, respectively. In fiscal year 2022 we received $26.0 million net proceeds from the sale of long-lived assets. Cash Flows from (used in) Financing Activities During fiscal year 2024 we received $748.5 million in net proceeds from debt related to the refinancing of our debt in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024 and the draw down on our revolving line of credit in the fourth quarter of 2024, each as described above. We received proceeds from the issuance of debt of $195.0 million in fiscal year 2023. The debt proceeds were offset by payments on our long-term debt of $91.9 million in fiscal year 2023 (including a $85.0 million repayment on the revolving line of credit). In addition, in fiscal year 2024, we received $27.8 million from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of shares under our employee stock purchase plan as compared to $26.0 million in fiscal year 2023. We also repurchased $86.8 million of our common 30 stock under our share repurchase plan in fiscal year 2024, compared to $34.0 million in fiscal year 2023. Share Repurchases In fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, we repurchased and retired 1.6 million, 0.6 million and 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $86.8 million, $34.0 million and $77.0 million, respectively. On January 10, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $150.0 million, to an aggregate authorization of $228.0 million. As of November 30, 2024, there was $107.2 million remaining under the current share repurchase authorization. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and the Board of Directors may choose to suspend, expand, or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. Dividends Upon closing of the ShareFile acquisition on October 31, 2024, our Board of Directors approved the suspension of our quarterly dividends. We plan to redirect such capital toward the repayment of debt to increase liquidity for future M&A and for share repurchases, both of which are prioritized in our capital allocation policy. Prior to the suspension of the quarterly dividend in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2024, we had paid aggregate cash dividends totaling $31.5 million, $31.6 million and $31.1 million for the years ended November 30, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Convertible Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt See Note 8: Debt to the consolidated financial statements. Indemnification Obligations We include standard intellectual property indemnification provisions in our licensing agreements in the ordinary course of business. Pursuant to our product license agreements, we will indemnify, hold harmless, and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, generally business partners or customers, in connection with certain patent, copyright or other intellectual property infringement claims by third parties with respect to our products. Other agreements with our customers provide indemnification for claims relating to property damage or personal injury resulting from the performance of services by us or our subcontractors. Historically, our costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims relating to such indemnity agreements have been insignificant. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of these indemnification provisions is immaterial. For indemnification claims related to the MOVEit Vulnerability. Please see Note 19: Cyber Related Matters to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Liquidity Outlook Cash from operations in fiscal year 2025 could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of various risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled "Risk Factors", including increased disruption and volatility in capital markets and credit markets that could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. However, based on our current business plan, we believe that existing cash balances, together with funds generated from operations and amounts available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operations and meet our foreseeable cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. Our foreseeable cash needs include capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt repayments, share repurchases, lease commitments, restructuring obligations and other long-term obligations. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 31 Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers typically include promises to license one or more products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Significant judgment is also required to determine the stand-alone selling price ("SSP") of each distinct performance obligation. Our licenses are sold as perpetual or term licenses, and the arrangements typically contain various combinations of maintenance and services, which are generally accounted for as separate performance obligations. We generally use the residual approach to allocate the transaction price to our software license performance obligations because, due to the pricing of our licenses being highly variable, they do not have an observable SSP. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. The SSP of maintenance services is a percentage of the net selling price of the related software license. Professional services revenue is generally recognized as the services are delivered to the customer. The SSP of services is based upon observable prices in similar transactions using the hourly rates sold in stand-alone services transactions. Services are either sold on a time and materials basis or prepaid upfront. Revenue related to software-as-a-service ("SaaS") offerings is recognized ratably over the contract period. The SSP of SaaS performance obligations is determined based upon observable prices in stand-alone SaaS transactions. We also consider whether an arrangement has any discounts, material rights, or specified future upgrades that may represent additional performance obligations, although we do not have a history of offering these elements. We do not have any material revenue arrangements that include estimates for variable consideration. Loss Contingencies and the MOVEit Vulnerability The Company recognizes a liability for loss contingencies for which it is probable that a liability has been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the amount is reasonably estimable. The Company has not incurred any significant litigation costs or entered into large settlements in recent history. As more fully discussed in Note 19: Cyber Related Matters to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2023, the Company discovered a zero-day vulnerability in its MOVEit Transfer and MOVEit Cloud software product offerings ("the MOVEit Vulnerability"), which resulted in government inquiries and investigations, and private litigation that the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred to the District of Massachusetts for coordinated and consolidated proceedings (the "MDL"), which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, or other resolutions, the amount, scope and timing of which could be material, but which the Company is currently unable to predict. There is complexity in applying this accounting framework for the potential losses arising from the MOVEit Vulnerability and in determining whether a loss is probable and estimable as these claims and proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties and potential damages for which we are unable to arrive at a reasonable estimate. Further, the outcome of these matters may not be known for prolonged periods of time. Since the MDL remains in the early stages; and alleged damages have not been specified, there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class if certified, and there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved, we are currently unable to develop an estimate of the losses or range of losses incurred (if any). Therefore, we have not recorded a loss contingency liability for the MOVEit Vulnerability as of November 30, 2024. The Company could incur judgments or enter into settlements regarding the outcome of these claims and proceedings, which could have a material effect on the estimated amount of the liability in the period in which the effect becomes probable and reasonably estimable. We have incurred expenses related to our efforts to investigate and remediate the MOVEit Vulnerability, as well as legal and other professional services related thereto. Expenses are recognized as they are incurred and are recognized net of expected insurance recoveries, although the timing of recognizing insurance recoveries may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses. We incurred expenses of $5.6 million and $1.5 million, net, related to the MOVEit Vulnerability for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the period when the MOVEit Vulnerability occurred, we maintained $15.0 million of cybersecurity insurance coverage, which is expected to reduce our exposure to expenses and liabilities arising from these events. As of November 30, 2024, we have recorded approximately $5.8 million in insurance recoveries, and we have $6.7 million of additional cybersecurity insurance coverage (which is subject to a $0.5 million retention per claim). We will pursue recoveries to the maximum extent available under our insurance policies. 32 Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The estimates used to value the net assets acquired are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired company. We generally value the identifiable intangible assets acquired using a discounted cash flow model. The significant estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows of the asset, discount rates to determine the present value of the future cash flows, attrition rates of customers, and expected technology life cycles. We also estimate the useful lives of the intangible assets based on the expected period over which we anticipate generating economic benefit from the asset. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time. If management made different estimates or judgments, material differences in the fair values of the net assets acquired may result. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1: Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.