Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" of this Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Risk Factor Summary Our businesses are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Any of the following risk factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not all inclusive, but represent the risks that we currently believe are material. There may be additional risks that we do not currently consider to be material or of which we are not currently aware. Any of these risks, as well as the risks described below, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results and could materially and adversely affect several aspects of our performance. Risks Related to our Regulatory Environment, Industry and Businesses Our businesses are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including laws and regulations unique to the industries in which our businesses operate, that may subject them to government investigations and significant monetary penalties and compliance-related burdens. The transactions we offer to consumers may be negatively characterized by government officials, consumer advocacy groups and the media. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation, a higher cost of living and elevated interest rates for extended periods, as well as other factors outside of our control, may adversely affect demand for our products and services and/or our customers' ability to make the payments they owe for such products and services. In an uncertain macroeconomic environment, our proprietary algorithms and decisioning tools used in approving our customers may no longer be indicative of their ability to perform. A large percentage of Progressive Leasing's revenue, which represents approximately 96% of PROG Holdings' consolidated revenue, is concentrated with several key point-of-sale partners (whom we refer to as our "POS partners"). Progressive Leasing serves subprime consumers, and its lease-to-own business model poses inherent risks that may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Although Vive and Four also serve subprime and near-prime consumers, their business models differ significantly from Progressive Leasing's lease-to-own business, which means each of these businesses have different risk profiles. Our efforts to modernize and enhance certain enterprise-wide information management systems and technologies could adversely impact our business and operations. Any significant disruptions in our information technology systems or the systems of our key vendors, whether from cyber-attacks, software errors, bugs, defects or otherwise, may prevent us from processing transactions timely and accurately (including making accurate lease and loan decisioning). Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to prevent losses in the event we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems. Our inability to protect confidential, proprietary, or sensitive information, including the confidential information of our customers, may be adversely affected by cyber-attacks or similar disruptions which may result in significant costs, litigation and reputational damage or otherwise have a material adverse impact on several aspects of our performance. 3 Our capital allocation strategy and financial policies, including our current stock repurchase and dividend programs, as well as any potential debt repurchase program, may not be effective at enhancing shareholder value, or providing other benefits we expect. From time to time, we may undertake significant cost reduction initiatives, which may not be adequate or may have unintended consequences that could be disruptive to our businesses. The loss of services of our key executives or our inability to attract and retain key talent, particularly with respect to our information technology function, may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our current and future business plans and strategies, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The portion of our indebtedness that is variable in nature subjects us to interest rate risk, which may cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. General Risk Factors Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to recover your investment if our stock price declines. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure