Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below, we are currently working to realign our go-to-market, product, and operational teams, as well as increase centralization of shared services and functions across our company. In the past, realignment initiatives have resulted in increased restructuring costs and have temporarily reduced productivity. Current and future realignment initiatives may be complex and could result in significant costs and expenses, which could negatively impact our reputation, financial condition, operating results and shareholder value. There can be no assurance that we can accomplish or implement all of the desired initiatives, or that the activities under those initiatives will result in the desired synergies or efficiencies. Furthermore, management has dedicated, and will continue to dedicate, significant time and effort to implementing such realignment initiatives. These efforts may divert managements focus and resources from our core business, other corporate initiatives, or strategic opportunities. We may also experience a loss of 11 continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, or inefficiency during transitional periods. Additionally, efforts related to the implementation of these initiatives could yield unintended consequences (e.g., adversely affecting our ability to execute on merger and acquisition objectives, confusion or distraction of our management and employees, reduced employee morale and retention, delaying the development and introduction of new products and technologies), which may negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to additional risks, and changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our international operations, our revenue and our net income . Approximately 43% of our total fiscal 2022 revenue, was generated from sales outside North America. Political and/or financial instability, oil price shocks and armed conflict in various regions of the world, including, but not limited to, Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, or increased cyber incidents as a result therefrom or otherwise, can lead to economic uncertainty and may adversely impact our business. Political instability may lead to significant, continuing volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. If customers buying patterns, decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Other potential risks inherent in our international business include: longer payment cycles; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; varying regulatory and legal requirements; compliance with international and local trade, labor and export control laws; restrictions on the transfer of funds; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, legal impediments and language and cultural differences; reduced or minimal protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies or practices that increase costs or restrict the distribution of products; seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; economic instability in emerging markets; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our business has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by regional or global health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. A significant outbreak of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments, or the fear of such events that results in a widespread health crisis could adversely affect global supply chains and the economies and financial markets of many countries. Any prolonged economic disruption could affect demand for our products and services and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our security measures are breached, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. including but not limited to from loss of customer or company data, loss of customers or otherwise. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our customers proprietary information and may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, distributed denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems. As disclosed on December 19, 2022, following the detection of irregular activity on certain portions of our corporate network, we engaged outside cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals to conduct a forensic investigation and assess the extent and scope of the cyber incident. During the investigation, we and our external advisors uncovered evidence of unauthorized access to our corporate network, including evidence that certain company data had been exfiltrated. As the investigation remains ongoing, we continue to assess the potential impact on our business, operations and financial results. As demonstrated by this cyber incident, due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our customers data, which could result in its theft, destruction, corruption or misappropriation and thus legal and financial exposure. Security risks in recent years have increased significantly given the increased sophistication and activities of hackers, organized crime, including state-sponsored organizations and nation-states, and other outside parties. Cyber threats are continuously evolving, increasing the difficulty of defending against them. Increased risks of such attacks and disruptions also exist due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine beginning in February 2022. While we have implemented security procedures and controls aimed at addressing these threats, our security measures could be compromised, could prove to be inadequate or could fail. Any security breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, increased costs to defend litigation, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and our brand, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Breaches of our network could disrupt our internal systems and business applications, including services provided to our customers. Additionally, data breaches could compromise 12 technical and proprietary information, harming our competitive position. We may need to spend significant capital or allocate significant resources to ensure effective ongoing protection against the threat of security breaches or to address security related concerns. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose customers. In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all costs related to cybersecurity incidents and the disruptions resulting from such events. If our products contain software defects or security flaws, it could harm our revenues and expose us to litigation. Our products, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain defects or security flaws, especially when we first introduce them or when new versions are released. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors. Depending upon the severity of any such events, the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect market acceptance of our products and expose us to potential litigation. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, such errors or delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. A failure of our information technology systems, including a cyber incident, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our products, supporting our ISVs and other third-party channels, fulfilling orders and billing, and collecting and making payments. This technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, the outbreak of wars or other armed conflicts, the escalation of hostilities, geopolitical tensions or trade wars, acts of terrorism or acts of God, particularly involving geographies in which we or third parties on whom we depend have operations, computer intrusions or other similar cyber intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other similar events. A significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. This technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. In addition, depending upon the severity of any such actions, we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of such technology infrastructure failures or provide us with the ability to cover all contingencies. Any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. Despite any precautions we may take, these problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss, destruction, corruption or misappropriation of company or customer data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Catastrophic events, including but not limited to cyber events, may disrupt our business. We rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for our development, marketing, operations, support and sales activities. In addition, we rely on third-party hosted services, and we do not control the operation of third-party data center facilities, which increases our vulnerability. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third-party hosted services in the event of a major earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic or other future pandemics), cyber-attack or other similar interruptions to our business, war (including the Russian invasion of Ukraine), terrorist attack or other catastrophic event that our disaster recovery plans do not adequately address, could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss, destruction, misappropriation or corruption of critical company or customer data. A catastrophic event including a cyber event a war or an act of terrorism that results in the loss, destruction, misappropriation, corruption or disruption of any of our data, our customers data or our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected, and the adverse effects of any such catastrophic event would be exacerbated if experienced at the same time as another unexpected and adverse event. Adverse developments in our relationships with certain third parties or within the business of such third parties could harm our revenues and results of operations. We recognize a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made through third parties, including our ISVs, distributors/resellers, and OEMs, and our future results depend in large part upon our continued successful distribution of our products through these channels. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the success of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a major ISV, distributor/reseller, or OEM could have a negative effect on our sales and financial results. Any adverse effect on any of our ISV's, distributors'/resellers', or OEMs businesses related to competition, pricing and other factors could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our customers and partners may delay payment or fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements, necessitating action by us to compel payment. If customers or partners delay payment or fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. Furthermore, some of our customers and partners may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay 13 amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flow. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the software industry. We may not continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations We are subject to risks associated with compliance with laws and regulations globally, which may harm our business. We are a global company subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs, both domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, payment card industry data security standards, records management, user-generated content hosted on websites we operate, data privacy or related privacy practices, data residency, corporate governance, anti-trust and competition, employee and third-party complaints, anti-corruption, gift policies, conflicts of interest, securities regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict on a domestic or international basis. For example, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We cannot provide assurance that our employees, contractors, agents and business partners will not take actions in violation of our internal policies or U.S. laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, new sanctions have been imposed by the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and other countries and companies and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia and Ukraine. Although we have policies and procedures in place designed to ensure compliance with applicable sanctions, our employees, contractors, and agents may take actions in violation of such policies and applicable law and ultimately we could be held responsible. If we are held responsible for a violation of U.S. sanctions laws, we may be subject to various penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business practices with respect to the collection, use and management of personal information could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. For example, on July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield, a system for complying with EU data protection requirements when transferring personal data from the European Economic Area ("EEA") to the U.S. Other data transfer mechanisms remain intact, although still subject to considerable scrutiny by certain member states and their Data Protection Authorities. On October 7, 2022, President Biden signed an executive order implementing the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, which is intended to replace the original E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield, and on December 13, 2022, the European Commission initiated a process to adopt an adequacy decision for this new framework. However, European companies will not be able to rely on the framework for sharing data with certified companies in the U.S. unless and until a final decision is published. As a result, we may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our products, and we may find it necessary or desirable to make further changes to our handling of personal data of EEA residents. The regulatory environment applicable to the handling of EEA residents' personal data, which is governed by the General Data Protection Regulation of 2018 (GDPR), may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs, and could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. Additionally, we and our customers may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities in the EEA relating to personal data transfers to us and by us from the EEA. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, governmental entities in the U.S. and other countries have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability and the ability of our customers and data partners to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. For example, the California Privacy Rights Act (which amends the California Consumer Privacy Act) took effect on January 1, 2023; Virginia, Colorado, Utah and Connecticut also have privacy laws taking effect in 2023 (and other state legislatures are considering varying privacy laws and regulations); and several privacy bills are under congressional review at the federal level. Changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering 14 certain services in jurisdictions that we operate. Regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations (e.g., non-compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue). Additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S. federal, state, or international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. We could incur substantial cost in protecting our proprietary software technology and if we fail to protect our technology, we could incur material harm to our business. We rely principally on a combination of contract provisions and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, whether or not we ultimately prevail on the merits. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology; moreover, others could independently develop similar technology. We could be subject to claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Third parties could assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our products and technology, and such claims might be successful. Litigation relating to any such claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, whether or not we ultimately prevail on the merits. Any such litigation could also result in our being prohibited from selling one or more of our products, unanticipated royalty payments, reluctance by potential customers to purchase our products, or liability to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation or implementation, may materially adversely affect our reported results of operations or financial position. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities . As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our income tax returns are routinely subject to audits by tax authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine our tax estimates, a final determination of tax audits that is inconsistent with such assessments or tax disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Contracting with government entities exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government procurement process. We provide products and services, directly and indirectly, to a variety of government entities, both domestically and internationally. Risks associated with licensing and selling products and services to government entities include more extended sales and collection cycles, varying governmental budgeting processes and adherence to complex procurement regulations and other government-specific and contractual requirements, including with respect to ongoing compliance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts for default or for the convenience of the government, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business, as well as harm to our reputation and financial results. These risks will increase if we successfully complete the acquisition of MarkLogic, which will increase the amount and variety of government entities that we contract with. 15 Risks Related to Financial Performance or General Economic Conditions Weakness in the U.S. and international economies may result in fewer sales of our products and may otherwise harm our business. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions, especially those in the U.S., Europe and Latin America. If global economic conditions weaken, credit markets tighten and/or financial markets become unstable, customers may delay, reduce or forego technology purchases, both directly and through our ISVs, resellers/distributors and OEMs. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Further, deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay amounts owed to us (see Our customers and partners may delay payment or fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements, necessitating action by us to compel payment ). The U.S. and other international economies continue to experience inflationary pressures, which may increase our expenses (including the cost of labor), negatively affect credit and securities markets generally, and further impact customer demand for our products and their ability to make payments. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are currently operating in a period of economic uncertainty and capital markets disruption due to various geopolitical and macro-economic factors, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. U.S. and global markets are continuing to experience volatility and disruption following among other things the escalation of geopolitical tensions in February 2022 with Russias invasion of Ukraine. The overall macro global economy, including the ongoing military conflict in Ukraine is highly unpredictable and has already led to market disruptions, including volatile capital markets, higher interest rates and debt capital costs, diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence and discretionary spending, as well as supply chain disruptions and increases in costs of certain raw materials and transportation, which have in turn contributed to global inflationary pressures. These and related actions, responses, and consequences may contribute to world-wide economic downturns. In addition, prolonged unrest, military activities, or broad-based sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business outlook. Given our meaningful reliance on revenue generated outside of North America (which constituted 43% of our total revenue in fiscal 2022) and our reliance on revenue generated in EMEA (which constituted 35% of our total revenue in fiscal 2022), disruption of commercial activities in these regions may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Russias invasion of Ukraine has also elevated the risk of cyber-attacks on U.S. and global companies, and as discussed elsewhere herein, any such cyber-attack could similarly impact or disrupt our commercial activities. Although we cannot predict what the impacts may be, our global operations and reliance on interconnected technology increase the risk to our operations. The extent and duration of the conflict in Ukraine, geopolitical tensions, inflationary pressures and resulting market disruptions are impossible to predict but could be substantial. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and related changes in interest rates have adversely affected our results of operations and financial position and could continue to do so. In recent periods, as the value of the U.S. dollar has strengthened in comparison to certain foreign currencies (particularly in EMEA), our reported international revenue has been reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. As approximately one-third of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, these exchange rate fluctuations have impacted, and we expect will continue to impact, our revenue results. Please see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 for additional information. We seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain actual and forecasted transactions of selected currencies (mainly in Europe, Brazil, India and Australia); however, our currency hedging transactions may not be effective in reducing the adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further, as geopolitical volatility around the world increases, there is increasing risk of the imposition of exchange or price controls, or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenue forecasting is uncertain, and the failure to meet our forecasts could result in a decline in our stock price. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues or economic impacts from M&A activities, are difficult to forecast. We use a pipeline system to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and result in a material adverse impact on our business or our planned results of operations. Furthermore, most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth or realize synergies from M&A activity, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet our publicly stated guidance or the expectations of investors or analysts, our stock price may decline. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: changes in demand for our products; introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; 16 market acceptance of our new products, including acquired products; the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; size and timing of significant orders; a high percentage of our revenue is generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; budgeting cycles of customers; mix of distribution channels; mix of products and services sold; mix of international and North American revenues; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in the level of operating expenses, including unforeseen expenses incurred in connection with items such as cyber security instances; changes in management; restructuring programs; changes in our sales force; completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; integration of acquired businesses or inability to realize expected synergies; customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products announced by us or our competitors; general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business; and other factors such as political or social unrest, terrorist attacks, other hostilities, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, and potential public health crises, such as pandemics. Our common stock price may continue to be volatile, which could result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may be unable at any given time to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Convertible Senior Notes Our indebtedness and liabilities could limit the cash flow available for our operations, expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of November 30, 2022, we had approximately $618 million of consolidated indebtedness. We may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our security holders and our business, results of operations and financial condition by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business; diluting the interests of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $325 million, due April 15, 2026 (the "Notes"); and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with competitors that are less leveraged than us or have better access to capital. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our current or future indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient funds, and we may otherwise be unable to maintain sufficient cash reserves, to pay amounts due under our current or future indebtedness, including the Notes, and our cash needs may increase in the future. In addition, our credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness that we may incur may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, raise capital or make payments under our other indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants or to make payments under our indebtedness when due, then we would be in default under that indebtedness, which could, in turn, result in that and our other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our credit facility and to make scheduled debt payments as they become due; any failure to comply with those covenants or to make scheduled payments could cause amounts borrowed under the facility to become immediately due and payable or prevent us from borrowing under the facility. In January 2022, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which provides for a $275.0 million term loan and a $300.0 million 17 revolving loan (which may be increased by an additional $260.0 million if the existing or additional lenders are willing to make such increased commitments). This facility matures in January 2027, at which time any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. We may wish to borrow additional amounts under the facility in the future to support our operations, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases. We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants and to make scheduled repayments of our term loan, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. We may be required to repay the Credit Agreement prior to the stated maturity date, if the springing maturity feature is triggered. On January 25, 2022, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which provides for a $275.0 million secured term loan and a $300.0 million secured revolving line of credit. The Credit Agreement has a stated maturity date of January 25, 2027, but includes a springing maturity feature that will cause the stated maturity date to spring ahead to the date that is 181 days prior to the maturity date of our Notes subject to certain conditions as set forth in the Credit Agreement, including the repayment of the Notes, the refinancing of the Notes including a maturity date that is at least 181 days after January 25, 2027 and compliance with a liquidity test when all amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. If such springing maturity feature is triggered, we will be required to pay all amounts outstanding under the credit facility sooner than they would otherwise be due, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay such amounts at that time, and we may not be able to raise additional funds to pay such amounts on a timely basis, on terms we find acceptable, or at all. The capped call transactions may affect the value of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain financial institutions (option counterparties). The capped call transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. From time to time, the option counterparties that are parties to the capped call transactions or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes. This activity could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results . Noteholders may require us to repurchase their Notes following a fundamental change at a cash repurchase price generally equal to the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition all conversions of Notes will be settled partially or entirely in cash. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase the Notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion. In addition, applicable law, regulatory authorities and the agreements governing our other indebtedness may restrict our ability to repurchase the Notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion. Our failure to repurchase Notes or to pay the cash amounts due upon conversion when required will constitute a default under the indenture governing the terms of the Notes. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, which may result in that other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full. If the repayment of such other indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, then we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon their conversion . We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions, and the capped call may not operate as planned. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the capped call transactions with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price subject to the cap and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Provisions in the indenture could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover of us. Certain provisions in the Notes and the indenture could make a third party attempt to acquire us more difficult or expensive. For example, if a takeover constitutes a fundamental change, then Noteholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes for cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, then we may be required to temporarily increase the conversion rate. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third 18 party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that Noteholders or holders of our common stock may view as favorable. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we do not have any open comments from the SEC related to our financial statements or periodic filings. Item 2. Properties During fiscal year 2022, we sold our corporate headquarters in Bedford, Massachusetts and moved to an existing leased office space in Burlington, Massachusetts. We lease our headquarters facility, which includes administrative, sales, support, marketing, product development and distribution functions, in one building totaling approximately 33,000 square feet in Burlington, Massachusetts. We also maintain offices for administrative, sales, support, marketing, product development and/or distribution purposes in leased facilities in various other locations in North America, including Morrisville, North Carolina, and Alpharetta, Georgia and outside North America, including Sofia, Bulgaria, Limerick, Ireland, Brno, Czech Republic, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, India, and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The terms of our leases generally range from one to fifteen years. Beginning in March 2020, our employees across all geographic regions shifted to working from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In early 2021, we reopened our offices in locations where it was permissible to do so, but most of our employees continued to work from home. Our focus remains on promoting employee health and safety, so we are not requiring employees to return to the office at this time. At the end of fiscal year 2021, we adopted an approach to work that gives our employees more flexibility to choose where to work. Depending on their role, this means that employees can choose their office location, as well as continue to work from home some or all the time. As of November 30, 2022, we have not terminated any significant lease arrangements. We believe our facilities are adequate for the conduct of our business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe that the outcome of any of these legal matters will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market and Stockholders Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PRGS". As of December 31, 2022, our common stock was held by approximately 128 stockholders of record. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds All issuances of unregistered securities during fiscal year 2022, if any, have previously been disclosed in filings with the SEC. 19 Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities All issuances of unregistered securities during fiscal year 2022, if any, have previously been disclosed in filings with the SEC. Stock Repurchases and Dividends Repurchases of our common stock by month in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 were as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs September 2022 $ $ 79,476 October 2022 33,856 44.79 33,856 77,959 November 2022 77,959 Total 33,856 $ 44.79 33,856 $ 77,959 On January 10, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $150.0 million, to an aggregate authorization of $228.0 million. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and the Board of Directors may choose to suspend, expand or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. We have declared aggregate per share quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.70, $0.70 and $0.67 for the years ended November 30, 2022, November 30, 2021 and November 30, 2020, respectively. We paid aggregate cash dividends totaling $31.1 million, $31.6 million and $29.9 million for the years ended November 30, 2022, November 30, 2021 and November 30, 2020, respectively. Our Board of Directors may choose to suspend, decrease, or discontinue utilizing dividends as part of our capital allocation strategy at any time, particularly, if doing so, may advance our accretive M&A strategy. 20 Stock Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer Index for each of the last five fiscal years ended November 30, 2022, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such period and the reinvestment of any dividends. Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return (1) Among Progress Software Corporation, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer Index (1) $100 invested on November 30, 2017 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. November 30, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Progress Software Corporation $ 100.00 $ 85.05 $ 99.49 $ 97.00 $ 117.20 $ 128.98 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 106.64 124.64 177.46 226.04 166.83 NASDAQ Computer 100.00 104.71 135.95 208.91 293.19 210.78 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Progress Software Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended November 30, 2022 compared to the year ended November 30, 2021. For a discussion of the year ended November 30, 2021 compared to the year ended November 30, 2020, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2021, as amended. 21 Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements below about anticipated results and our products and markets are forward-looking statements that are based on our current plans and assumptions. Important information about the bases for these plans and assumptions and factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements is contained below and in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Use of Constant Currency Revenue from our international operations has historically represented a substantial portion of our total revenue. As a result, our revenue results have been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, if the local currencies of our foreign subsidiaries strengthen, our consolidated results stated in U.S. dollars are positively impacted. As exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons, we believe the presentation of revenue growth rates on a constant currency basis enhances the understanding of our revenue results and evaluation of our performance in comparison to prior periods. The constant currency information presented is calculated by translating current period results using prior period weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Overview Progress Software Corporation ("Progress," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our") is the trusted provider of the best products to develop, deploy and manage high-impact business applications. We enable our customers to develop the applications and experiences they need, deploy where and how they want, and manage it all safely and securely. Progress helps customers drive faster cycles of innovation, fuel momentum and accelerate their path to success. The key tenets of our strategic plan and operating model are as follows: Be the Trusted Provider of the Best Products to Develop, Deploy and Manage High Impact Applications . A key element of our strategy is centered on providing the platform and tools enterprises need to build, deploy, and manage modern, strategic business applications. We offer these products and tools to both new customers and partners as well as our existing partner and customer ecosystems. Focus on Customer and Partner Retention to Drive Recurring Revenue and Profitability . Our organizational philosophy and operating principles focus primarily on customer and partner retention and success and a streamlined operating approach in order to more efficiently drive, predictable and stable recurring revenue and high levels of profitability. Follow a Total Growth Strategy through Accretive M&A. We are pursuing a total growth strategy driven by accretive acquisitions of businesses within the infrastructure software space, with products that appeal to both IT organizations and individual developers. These acquisitions must meet strict financial and other criteria, which help further our goal to provide significant stockholder returns by providing scale and increased cash flows. In April 2019, we acquired Ipswitch, Inc.; in October 2020, we acquired Chef Software, Inc.; and in November 2021, we acquired Kemp Technologies. These acquisitions met our strict financial criteria. In addition, on January 3, 2023, we announced our entry into a definitive agreement with Vector Maven Holdings, Inc. and Vector Maven Holdings, L.P. to acquire MarkLogic, a leader in managing complex data and metadata (subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions set forth in the definitive agreement). In recent years, our total growth strategy described above has resulted in the rapid expansion of our product portfolio. As our portfolio evolves, we continuously evaluate our organization for additional synergies and efficiencies. Therefore, we are working to realign our go-to-market, product, and operational teams and to increase centralization of shared services and functions across our company. We believe that these changes will improve collaboration among the teams that develop, sell, and support our products; enhance our ability to integrate acquired businesses; and lead to greater system uniformity and increased operating efficiency. Employ a Multi-Faceted Capital Allocation Strategy . Our capital allocation policy emphasizes accretive M&A, which allows us to expand our business and drive significant stockholder returns. We also utilize dividends and share repurchases to return capital to stockholders. We intend to continue to repurchase our shares in sufficient quantities to offset dilution from our equity plans and to continue to return a portion of our annual cash flows from operations to stockholders in the form of dividends. In fiscal year 2022, we repurchased and retired 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $77.0 million. As of November 30, 2022, there was $78.0 million remaining under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. On January 10, 2023, 22 our Board of Directors increased our total share repurchase authorization by $150.0 million, to an aggregate authorization of $228.0 million. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and the Board of Directors may choose to suspend, expand or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. We began paying quarterly cash dividends of $0.125 per share of common stock to Progress stockholders in December 2016 and increased the quarterly cash dividend annually in fiscal years 2017, 2018 and 2019. On September 22, 2020, our Board of Directors approved an additional increase of 6% to our quarterly cash dividend from $0.165 to $0.175 and declared a quarterly dividend of $0.175 per share of common stock. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. As described above, we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions meeting our financial criteria and designed to expand our business and drive significant stockholder returns. As a result, our expected uses of cash could change, our cash position could be reduced, and we may incur additional debt obligations to the extent we complete additional acquisitions. However, we believe that existing cash balances, together with funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operations and meet our foreseeable cash requirements, including quarterly cash dividends and stock repurchases to Progress stockholders, as applicable, through at least the next twelve months. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations, which are primarily conducted in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have significantly impacted our results of operations and may impact our future results of operations. Since approximately one-third of our revenue is denominated in foreign currency, and given the recent volatility in the global economy, our revenue results in fiscal year 2021 and 2022 were impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 As Reported Constant Currency Revenue $ 602,013 $ 531,313 13 % 16 % The increase in revenue in fiscal year 2022 was driven by the acquisition of Kemp, which closed during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, and increases in our OpenEdge, DevTools, Sitefinity, and Corticon product offerings. These increases were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange on license and maintenance revenue in our EMEA region. Changes in prices from fiscal year 2021 to 2022 did not have a significant impact on our revenue. Software License Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 As Reported Constant Currency License $ 188,336 $ 156,590 20 % 24 % As a percentage of total revenue 31 % 29 % Software license revenue increased in fiscal year 2022 primarily due to the acquisition of Kemp, as well as increases in license sales in our DataDirect and Corticon product offerings, which was partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange. 23 Maintenance and Services Revenue Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 As Reported Constant Currency Maintenance $ 362,335 $ 325,863 11 % 14 % As a percentage of total revenue 60 % 61 % Professional services $ 51,342 $ 48,860 5 % 7 % As a percentage of total revenue 9 % 10 % Total maintenance and services revenue $ 413,677 $ 374,723 10 % 13 % As a percentage of total revenue 69 % 71 % Maintenance revenue increased in fiscal year 2022 primarily due to the acquisition of Kemp, as well as an increase in maintenance revenue from our Chef, Ipswitch and DevTools product offerings, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange in our EMEA region . Professional services revenue increased primarily due to increased services revenue from our Sitefinity, Ipswitch, and DevTools product offerings. Revenue by Region Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 As Reported Constant Currency North America $ 341,154 $ 317,814 7 % 7 % As a percentage of total revenue 57 % 60 % EMEA $ 207,707 $ 169,335 23 % 32 % As a percentage of total revenue 35 % 32 % Latin America $ 18,053 $ 17,036 6 % 4 % As a percentage of total revenue 3 % 3 % Asia Pacific $ 35,099 $ 27,128 29 % 33 % As a percentage of total revenue 5 % 5 % Total revenue generated in North America increased $23.3 million, and total revenue generated outside North America increased $47.4 million, in fiscal year 2022. The increases in North America and EMEA were primarily due to the acquisition of Kemp and increases in license revenue from our DataDirect product offerings and maintenance revenue from our Ipswitch product offerings. Revenue from Latin America increased due to the acquisition of Kemp, and an increase in Sitefinity license and maintenance revenue. Revenue from Asia Pacific increased due to the acquisition of Kemp as well as increases in our OpenEdge, DevTools, and Sitefinity product offerings. Total revenue generated in markets outside North America represented 43% of total revenue in fiscal year 2022 compared to 40% of total revenue in the same period last year. If exchange rates had remained constant in fiscal year 2022 as compared to the exchange rates in effect in fiscal year 2021, total revenue generated in markets outside North America would have been 45% of total revenue. Cost of Software Licenses Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Change Cost of software licenses $ 10,243 $ 5,271 $ 4,972 94 % As a percentage of software license revenue 5 % 3 % As a percentage of total revenue 2 % 1 % Cost of software licenses consists primarily of costs of inventories, royalties, electronic software distribution, duplication, and packaging. Cost of software licenses as a percentage of software license revenue varies from period to period depending upon the relative product mix. The year over year increase is due to our acquisition of Kemp in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. 24 Cost of Maintenance and Services Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Change Cost of maintenance and services $ 62,177 $ 58,242 $ 3,935 7 % As a percentage of maintenance and services revenue 15 % 16 % As a percentage of total revenue 10 % 11 % Components of cost of maintenance and services: Personnel Related Costs $ 44,049 $ 40,015 $ 4,034 10 % Contractors and Outside Services 12,286 13,087 (801) (6) % Hosting and Other 5,842 5,140 702 14 % Total cost of maintenance and services $ 62,177 $ 58,242 $ 3,935 7 % Cost of maintenance and services consists primarily of costs of providing customer support, consulting, and education. Cost of maintenance and services increased primarily due to higher personnel and hosting related costs resulting from the acquisition of Kemp, offset by decreased contractors and outside services costs. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 22,076 $ 14,936 48 % As a percentage of total revenue 4 % 3 % Amortization of acquired intangibles included in costs of revenue primarily represents the amortization of the value assigned to technology-related intangible assets obtained in business combinations. The year over year increase was due to the addition of Kemp acquired intangibles. Gross Profit Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Gross profit $ 507,517 $ 452,864 12 % As a percentage of total revenue 84 % 85 % Our gross profit increased primarily due to the increase in revenue, offset by the increases of costs of licenses, costs of maintenance and services, and the amortization of intangibles, each as described above. Sales and Marketing Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Change Sales and marketing $ 140,760 $ 125,890 $ 14,870 12 % As a percentage of total revenue 23 % 24 % Components of sales and marketing: Personnel related costs $ 119,350 $ 107,335 $ 12,015 11 % Contractors and outside services 3,156 3,079 77 3 % Marketing programs and other 18,254 15,476 2,778 18 % Total sales and marketing $ 140,760 $ 125,890 $ 14,870 12 % Sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal year 2022 primarily due to increased personnel related costs associated with our acquisition of Kemp, as well as increases in marketing and sales events costs . 25 Product Development Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Change Product development $ 114,568 $ 103,338 $ 11,230 11 % As a percentage of total revenue 19 % 19 % Components of product development costs: Personnel related costs $ 111,009 $ 98,747 $ 12,262 12 % Contractors and outside services 2,699 3,504 (805) (23) % Other product development costs 860 1,087 (227) (21) % Total product developments costs $ 114,568 $ 103,338 $ 11,230 11 % Product development expenses increased in fiscal year 2022 primarily due to increased personnel related costs associated with our acquisition of Kemp, partially offset by decreased contractors and outside services costs and other product development costs . General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Change General and administrative $ 77,876 $ 65,128 $ 12,748 20 % As a percentage of total revenue 13 % 12 % Components of general and administrative: Personnel Related Costs $ 61,330 $ 51,601 $ 9,729 19 % Contractors and Outside Services 9,763 9,299 464 5 % Other general and administrative costs 6,783 4,228 2,555 60 % Total cost of general and administrative $ 77,876 $ 65,128 $ 12,748 20 % General and administrative expenses include the costs of our finance, human resources, legal, information systems and administrative departments. General and administrative expenses increased in fiscal year 2022 primarily due to higher personnel related costs associated with our acquisition of Kemp, as well as increases in contractors and outside services and other general and administrative costs. Amortization of Intangibles Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Amortization of intangibles $ 46,868 $ 31,996 46 % As a percentage of total revenue 8 % 6 % Amortization of intangibles included in operating expenses primarily represents the amortization of value assigned to intangible assets obtained in business combinations other than assets identified as purchased technology. Amortization of acquired intangibles increased in fiscal year 2022 due to the addition of Kemp acquired intangibles, as discussed above. Restructuring Expenses Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Restructuring expenses $ 879 $ 6,308 (86) % As a percentage of total revenue % 1 % Restructuring expenses recorded in fiscal year 2022 primarily relate to the restructuring activities that occurred in fiscal years 2021 and 2020. See Note 16: Restructuring to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details, including types of expenses incurred and the timing of future expenses and cash payments. 26 Acquisition-Related Expenses Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Acquisition-related expenses $ 4,603 $ 4,102 12 % As a percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and include those costs incurred as a result of a business combination. These costs primarily consist of professional services fees, including third-party legal and valuation-related fees, as well as retention fees. Acquisition-related expenses in fiscal year 2022 were primarily related to our pursuit of other acquisition opportunities. Acquisition-related expenses in fiscal year 2021 were primarily related to the acquisition of Kemp, as well as our pursuit of other acquisition opportunities. Cyber Incident Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Cyber incident $ 602 $ * As a percentage of total revenue % % *Not meaningful As previously disclosed on December 19, 2022, following the detection of irregular activity on certain portions of our corporate network, we engaged outside cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals to conduct a forensic investigation and assess the extent and scope of the cyber incident. Cyber incident costs relate to the engagement of external cybersecurity experts and other incident response professionals. Gain on Sale of Assets Held for Sale Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Gain on sale of assets held for sale $ (10,770) $ * As a percentage of total revenue 2 % % *Not meaningful In the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, we sold corporate land and building assets previously reported as assets held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet. As the sale price less cost to sell was greater than the carrying value of these assets we recognized a net gain on the sale of approximately $10.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022. Income from Operations Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Income from operations $ 132,131 $ 116,102 14 % As a percentage of total revenue 22 % 22 % Income from operations increased year over year due to an increase in revenue, offset by increases in costs of revenue and operating expenses as shown above. 27 Other (Expense) Income Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Interest expense $ (15,790) $ (20,045) (21) % Interest income and other, net 1,414 777 82 % Foreign currency loss, net (500) (1,300) (62) % Total other expense, net $ (14,876) $ (20,568) (28) % As a percentage of total revenue (2) % (4) % Total other expense, net, decreased in fiscal year 2022 due to decreased interest expense on our convertible senior notes resulting from the adoption of ASU 2020-06. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation for further details on the impact of adoption. The decrease in interest expense on our convertible senior notes was partially offset by increased interest expense on our term loan, which was amended in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 9: Debt, for further details on the impact of the amendment. Interest income and other, net, was higher in fiscal year 2022, resulting from the recognition of grant income during the first quarter of the year. Foreign currency loss decreased year over year. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Provision for income taxes $ 22,186 $ 17,114 30 % As a percentage of total revenue 4 % 3 % Our effective income tax rate was 19% and 18% for fiscal years 2022 and 2021 respectively. The primary reason for the increase in the effective rate was due to the jurisdictional mix of profits. Net Income Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 % Change Net income $ 95,069 $ 78,420 21 % As a percentage of total revenue 16 % 15 % Select Performance Metrics: Management evaluates our financial performance using a number of financial and operating metrics. These metrics are periodically reviewed and revised to reflect changes in our business. Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) We are providing an ARR performance metric to help investors better understand and assess the performance of our business because our mix of revenue generated from recurring sources has increased in recent years. ARR represents the annualized contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. ARR includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, public cloud and on-premises subscription-based transactions and managed services. ARR mitigates fluctuations due to seasonality, contract term and the sales mix of subscriptions for term-based licenses and SaaS. ARR is not calculated in accordance with GAAP. ARR does not have any standardized meaning and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace either of those items. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. We define ARR as the annual recurring revenue of term-based contracts from all customers at a point in time. We calculate ARR by taking monthly recurring revenue, or MRR, and multiplying it by 12. MRR for each month is calculated by aggregating, for all customers during that month, monthly revenue from committed contractual amounts, additional usage and monthly subscriptions. The calculation is done at constant currency using the current year budgeted exchange rates for all periods presented. 28 Our ARR was $497.0 million and $480.0 million as of November 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which is an increase of 3.5% year-over-year. The growth in ARR was driven by multiple products including OpenEdge, DataDirect, Sitefinity, Chef, DevTools and FileTransfer. Net Dollar Retention Rate We calculate net dollar retention rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end (Prior Period ARR). We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end (Current Period ARR). Current Period ARR includes any expansion and is net of contraction or attrition over the last 12 months but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the net dollar retention rate. Net dollar retention rate is not calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our net dollar retention rates have generally ranged between 98% and 101% for all periods presented. Our high net dollar retention rates illustrate our predictable and durable top line performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 Cash and cash equivalents $ 256,277 $ 155,406 Short-term investments 1,967 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 256,277 $ 157,373 The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $98.9 million from the end of fiscal year 2021 was primarily due to cash inflows from operations of $192.2 million, proceeds from the sale of long-lived assets of $26.0 million, $8.3 million in cash received from the issuance of common stock, and proceeds from the issuance of debt of $7.5 million. These cash inflows were offset by repurchases of common stock of $77.0 million, dividend payments of $31.1 million, the effect of exchange rates on cash of $11.9 million, payments of debt obligations of $6.9 million, purchases of property and equipment of $6.1 million, and payments of issuance costs for long-term debt of $2.3 million. Except as described below, there are no limitations on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $51.8 million and $36.8 million at November 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Foreign cash includes unremitted foreign earnings, which are invested indefinitely outside of the U.S. As such, they are not available to fund our domestic operations. If we were to repatriate these earnings, we may be subject to income tax withholding in certain tax jurisdictions and a portion of the repatriated earnings may be subject to U.S. income tax. However, we do not anticipate that the repatriation of earnings would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Share Repurchases In fiscal years 2022 and 2021, we repurchased and retired 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $77.0 million and 0.8 million shares of our common stock for $35.0 million, respectively. In fiscal year 2020, we repurchased and retired 1.4 million shares of our common stock for $60.0 million. As of November 30, 2022, there was $78.0 million remaining under the current share repurchase authorization. On January 10, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $150.0 million, to an aggregate authorization of $228.0 million. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors, and the Board of Directors may choose to suspend, expand, or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. Dividends We began paying quarterly cash dividends of $0.125 per share of common stock to Progress stockholders in December 2016 and have paid quarterly dividends since that time. On September 23, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.175 per share of common stock that was paid on December 15, 2022 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2022. On January 10, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.175 per share of common stock that will be paid on March 15, 2023 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2023. We have paid aggregate cash dividends totaling $31.1 million, $31.6 million and $29.9 million for the years ended November 30, 2022, November 30, 2021 and November 30, 2020, respectively. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. 29 Restructuring Activities During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we restructured our operations in connection with the acquisition of Chef. This restructuring resulted in a reduction in redundant positions, primarily within administrative functions of Chef. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we incurred expenses of $0.4 million, $4.1 million and $3.9 million, respectively, relating to this restructuring. The expenses are recorded as restructuring expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. We expect to incur additional expenses as part of this action related to facility closures as we consolidate offices in various locations during fiscal year 2023, but we do not expect these costs to be material. Cash disbursements for expenses incurred to date under this restructuring are expected to be made through fiscal year 2027. Accordingly, the balance of the restructuring reserve of $3.9 million is included in short-term and long-term lease liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at November 30, 2022. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, we restructured our operations in connection with the acquisition of Kemp. This restructuring resulted in a reduction in redundant positions, primarily within administrative functions of Kemp. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2022 and 2021, we incurred expenses of $0.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, relating to this restructuring. The expenses are recorded as restructuring expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. We expect to incur additional expenses as part of this action related to employee costs, but we do not expect these costs to be material. Minimal cash disbursements for expenses incurred to date under this restructuring are expected to be made through fiscal year 2023. Accordingly, the minimal balance of the restructuring reserve is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at November 30, 2022. Credit Facility On January 25, 2022, we entered into the Credit Agreement providing for a $275.0 million secured term loan and a $300.0 million secured revolving credit facility. The Credit Agreement matures on the earlier of (i) January 25, 2027 and (ii) the date that is 181 days prior to the maturity date of our Notes (defined below) subject to certain conditions. The revolving credit facility does not require amortization of principal. The term loan requires repayment of principal at the end of each fiscal quarter, beginning with the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2022. The first eight payments are in the principal amount of $1.7 million each, the following four payments are in the principal amount of $3.4 million each, the following eight payments are in the principal amount of $5.2 million each and the last payment is of the remaining principal amount. Any amounts outstanding under the term loan thereafter would be due on the maturity date. The term loan may be prepaid before maturity in whole or in part at our option without penalty or premium. Revolving loans may be borrowed, repaid, and reborrowed until January 25, 2027, at which time all amounts outstanding must be repaid. As of November 30, 2022, there were no outstanding amounts under the revolving line of credit and $2.3 million of letters of credit. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. We are also required to maintain compliance with a consolidated interest charge coverage ratio and a consolidated total net leverage ratio. Additionally, the Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, that in event of, could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement. We are in compliance with all financial covenants as of November 30, 2022. See Note 9: Debt for further discussion. Convertible Senior Notes In April 2021, we issued, in a private placement, Convertible Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $325 million, due April 15, 2026, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted (the "Notes"). There are no required principal payments prior to the maturity of the Notes. In addition, the Company also granted the initial purchasers of the Notes an option to purchase up to an additional $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes, for settlement within a 13-day period beginning on, and including, April 13, 2021, of which $35 million of additional Notes were purchased for total proceeds of $360 million. The Notes bear interest at an annual rate of 1%, payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on October 15, 2021. See Note 9: Debt for further discussion. 30 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 November 30, 2020 Net income $ 95,069 $ 78,420 $ 79,722 Non-cash reconciling items included in net income 104,121 100,666 64,534 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (7,030) (556) 591 Net cash flows from operating activities $ 192,160 $ 178,530 $ 144,847 The increase in cash generated from operations in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021 was primarily due to increased collections resulting from the acquisition of Kemp, as well as particularly strong collections generated from the rest of the business, partially offset by higher compensation related payments as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in non-cash reconciling items included in net income primarily relates to the increase in amortization of intangibles due to the recent acquisition of Kemp. Our gross accounts receivable as of November 30, 2022 decreased by $1.8 million from the end of fiscal year 2021. Days sales outstanding ("DSO") in accounts receivable increased to 62 days at the end of fiscal year 2022 compared to 60 days at the end of fiscal year 2021, due to the timing of billings and collections. In addition, our net deferred revenue as of November 30, 2022 increased by $30.1 million from the end of fiscal year 2021. The significant changes in operating assets and liabilities in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 were primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable and unbilled receivables. There werent any significant non-cash reconciling items included in net income in fiscal year 2021 or 2020. In addition, our gross accounts receivable as of November 30, 2021 increased by $15.1 million from the end of fiscal year 2020, which was primarily due to the acquisition of Kemp. DSO in accounts receivable increased to 60 days at the end of fiscal year 2021 compared to 54 days at the end of fiscal year 2020. Cash Flows from (used in) Investing Activities Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 November 30, 2020 Net investment activity $ 1,950 $ 5,950 $ 11,392 Purchases of property and equipment (6,090) (4,654) (6,517) Proceeds from sale of long-lived assets, net 25,998 889 Decrease in escrow receivable and other 134 2,330 Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (253,961) (213,057) Net cash flows from (used in) investing activities $ 21,992 $ (250,335) $ (207,293) Net cash outflows and inflows of our net investment activity are generally a result of the timing of our purchases and maturities of securities, which are classified as cash equivalents or short-term securities, as well as the timing of acquisitions and divestitures. In fiscal year 2022 we received $26.0 million net proceeds from the sale of long-lived assets . Cash used in investing activities was impacted by the acquisition of Kemp for a net cash amount of $254.0 million, and Chef for a net cash amount of $213.1 million, in fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. In addition, we purchased $6.1 million of property and equipment in fiscal year 2022, as compared to $4.7 million in fiscal year 2021, and $6.5 million in fiscal year 2020. We also sold $0.9 million of intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. 31 Cash Flows (used in) from Financing Activities Fiscal Year Ended (In thousands) November 30, 2022 November 30, 2021 November 30, 2020 Proceeds from stock-based compensation plans $ 16,165 $ 15,033 $ 11,099 Repurchases of common stock (77,041) (35,000) (60,000) Dividend payment to stockholders (31,063) (31,561) (29,900) Proceeds from issuance of convertible senior notes, net of issuance costs of $9.9 million 350,100 Purchase of capped calls (43,056) Proceeds from the issuance of debt, net of payments of principal and debt issuance costs (1,660) (118,217) 87,212 Other financing activities (7,824) (5,186) (5,331) Net cash flows (used in) from financing activities $ (101,423) $ 132,113 $ 3,080 During fiscal year 2022, we received $16.2 million from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of shares under our employee stock purchase plan as compared to $15.0 million in fiscal year 2021 and $11.1 million in fiscal year 2020. In addition, we made dividend payments of $31.1 million to our stockholders in fiscal year 2022, as compared to dividend payments of $31.6 million and $29.9 million in fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Most significantly, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, we received $349.2 million in net proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes and paid $43.1 million to purchase capped calls in connection with the convertible note offering. We received proceeds from the issuance of debt of $7.5 million in fiscal year 2022 and $98.5 million in fiscal year 2020. The debt proceeds were offset by payments on our long-term debt of $6.9 million in fiscal year 2022 compared to $117.3 million in fiscal year 2021 (including a $98.5 million repayment on the revolving line of credit), and $11.3 million in fiscal year 2020. In addition, we repurchased $77.0 million of our common stock under our share repurchase plan in fiscal year 2022, compared to $35.0 million in fiscal year 2021, and $60.0 million in fiscal year 2020. Indemnification Obligations We include standard intellectual property indemnification provisions in our licensing agreements in the ordinary course of business. Pursuant to our product license agreements, we will indemnify, hold harmless, and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, generally business partners or customers, in connection with certain patent, copyright or other intellectual property infringement claims by third parties with respect to our products. Other agreements with our customers provide indemnification for claims relating to property damage or personal injury resulting from the performance of services by us or our subcontractors. Historically, our costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims relating to such indemnity agreements have been insignificant. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of these indemnification provisions is immaterial. Liquidity Outlook Cash from operations in fiscal year 2023 could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of various risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors which have led to increased disruption and volatility in capital markets and credit markets that could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. However, based on our current business plan, we believe that existing cash balances, together with funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operations and meet our foreseeable cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. We do not contemplate a need for any foreign repatriation of the earnings which are deemed invested indefinitely outside of the U.S. Our foreseeable cash needs include capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt repayments, quarterly cash dividends, share repurchases, lease commitments, restructuring obligations and other long-term obligations. On January 3, 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire MarkLogic for approximately $355 million, subject to certain working capital and other adjustments. We expect to fund the acquisition through a combination of approximately $155.0 million of existing cash resources and by drawing down approximately $200.0 million from our existing revolving credit facility. The acquisition is currently expected to close in early 2023, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement. See Item 8, Note 20: Subsequent Events for further discussion. 32 Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require updates to our estimates or judgments or require us to revise the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We have identified the following critical accounting estimates that require the use of significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers typically include promises to license one or more products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Significant judgment is also required to determine the stand-alone selling price ("SSP") of each distinct performance obligation. Our licenses are sold as perpetual or term licenses, and the arrangements typically contain various combinations of maintenance and services, which are generally accounted for as separate performance obligations. We use the residual approach to allocate the transaction price to our software license performance obligations because, due to the pricing of our licenses being highly variable, they do not have an observable SSP. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. The SSP of maintenance services is a percentage of the net selling price of the related software license. Professional services revenue is generally recognized as the services are delivered to the customer. We apply the practical expedient of recognizing revenue upon invoicing for time and materials-based arrangements. The SSP of services is based upon observable prices in similar transactions using the hourly rates sold in stand-alone services transactions. Services are either sold on a time and materials basis or prepaid upfront. Revenue related to software-as-a-service ("SaaS") offerings is recognized ratably over the contract period. The SSP of SaaS performance obligations is determined based upon observable prices in stand-alone SaaS transactions. We also consider whether an arrangement has any discounts, material rights, or specified future upgrades that may represent additional performance obligations, although we do not have a history of offering these elements. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The estimates used to value the net assets acquired are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired company. We generally value the identifiable intangible assets acquired using a discounted cash flow model. The significant estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows of the asset, discount rates to determine the present value of the future cash flows, attrition rates of customers, and expected technology life cycles. We also estimate the useful lives of the intangible assets based on the expected period over which we anticipate generating economic benefit from the asset. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time. If management made different estimates or judgments, material differences in the fair values of the net assets acquired may result. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1: Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 33