ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The use of the words "we," "us," "our," "Company" or "Pillarstone" refers to Pillarstone Capital REIT and our consolidated subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains historical information, as well as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including discussion and analysis of our financial condition, anticipated capital expenditures required to complete projects, amounts of anticipated cash distributions to our shareholders in the future and other matters. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts but are the intent, belief or current expectations of our management based on its knowledge and understanding of our business and industry. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by the use of terms such as may, will, should, potential, predicts, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates or the negative of such terms and variations of these words and similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements include these words. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that were true at the time made may ultimately prove to be incorrect or false. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our managements view only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include: uncertainties related to the national economy, the real estate industry in general and in our specific markets; legislative or regulatory changes; adverse economic conditions in Texas; adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; increases in interest rates and operating costs; availability and terms of capital and financing, both to fund our operations and to refinance our indebtedness as it matures; decreases in rental rates or increases in vacancy rates; litigation risks; lease-up risks, including leasing risks arising from exclusivity and consent provisions in leases with significant tenants; our inability to renew tenants or obtain new tenants upon the expiration of existing leases; and our inability to generate sufficient cash flows due to market conditions, competition, uninsured losses, changes in tax or other applicable laws. In addition, an investment in the Company involves numerous risks that potential investors should consider carefully, including, without limitation: our cash resources are limited; we have a history of losses; we have not raised funds through a public equity offering; our trustees control a significant percentage of our voting shares; shareholders could experience possible future dilution through the issuance of additional equity; we are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals who are part-time employees; and we currently do not plan to distribute dividends to the holders of our shares. The forward-looking statements should be read in light of these factors and the factors identified in the Risk Factors section of the 2017 Form 10-K. 10 OVERVIEW Pillarstone Capital REIT was formed on March 15, 1994 as a Maryland real estate investment trust (REIT). The Company operated as a traditional real estate investment trust by buying, selling, owning and operating commercial and residential properties through December 31, 1999. In 2000, the Company purchased a software technology company, resulting in the Company not meeting the qualifications to be a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of the technology segment, and from 2003 through 2006, pursued a value-added business plan primarily focused on acquiring well located, under-performing multi-family residential properties, including affordable housing communities, and repositioning them through renovation, leasing, improved management and branding. Pillarstone is currently engaged in investing in, owning and operating commercial properties. Substantially all of our business is conducted through our operating partnership Pillarstone Capital REIT Operating Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership formed on September 23, 2016 (Pillarstone OP). We are the sole general partner of Pillarstone OP. As of March 31, 2018 , we owned approximately 18.6% of the outstanding equity in Pillarstone OP, and Whitestone OP owned approximately 81.4% of the outstanding equity in Pillarstone OP. We account for Pillarstone OP on our financial statements using the equity method. Future real estate investments may include (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or a real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. As of March 31, 2018 , the Company is a smaller reporting company current in its quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the SEC that may make future real estate investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to close additional transactions. Even if our management is successful in closing additional transactions, investors may not value the transactions or the Company in the same manner as we do, and investors may not value the transactions as they would value other transactions or alternatives. Failure to obtain additional sources of capital will materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to continue operations, as well as its liquidity and financial results. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW On December 8, 2016, Pillarstone and Pillarstone OP, entered into a Contribution Agreement (the Contribution Agreement) with Whitestone REIT Operating Partnership, L.P. (Whitestone OP), a subsidiary and the operating partnership of Whitestone REIT (Whitestone), both of which are related parties to Pillarstone and Pillarstone OP, pursuant to which Whitestone OP contributed to Pillarstone OP all of the equity interests in four of its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Whitestone CP Woodland Ph. 2, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (CP Woodland); Whitestone Industrial-Office, LLC, a Texas limited liability company (Industrial-Office); Whitestone Offices, LLC, a Texas limited liability company (Whitestone Offices); and Whitestone Uptown Tower, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Uptown Tower and, together with CP Woodland, Industrial-Office and Whitestone Offices, the Entities) that own 14 real estate assets (the Real Estate Assets and, together with the Entities, the Property) for aggregate consideration of approximately $84 million, consisting of (i) approximately $18.1 million of Class A units representing limited partnership interests in Pillarstone OP (OP Units), issued at a price of $1.331 per OP Unit; and (ii) the assumption of approximately $65.9 million of liabilities by Pillarstone OP (collectively, the Acquisition). Pillarstone is the general partner of Pillarstone OP and, as a result of the Contribution Agreement, has an equity ownership interest in Pillarstone OP totaling approximately 18.6% valued at $4,121,312 as of the date of the agreement. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion of our results of operations for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and our financial condition, including: Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017 . Our critical accounting policies and estimates that require our subjective judgment and are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary sources and uses of cash for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , and how we intend to generate cash for long-term capital needs. Our current income tax status. 11 The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein. Comparison of the Three Month Periods Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenues from Operations There was no revenue for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . This was the result of no operations or temporary investments in marketable securities. Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised of general and administrative expenses, decreased $49,157 from $147,821 for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 to $98,664 for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 . This decrease is primarily the result of decreases in acquisition expenses of $19,717 , legal fees of $10,691 , SEC filing charges and transfer agent fees of $7,954 and other expenses of $10,795 . Depreciation increased $566 and interest expense increased $55 for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 as compared to three month period ended March 31, 2017 . Loss from Operations As a result of the above, the loss from operations decreased $ 48,536 from $ 152,697 for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 to $ 104,161 for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 . Equity in income of Pillarstone OP The equity in income of Pillarstone OP increased $57,530 from $64,249 for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 to $121,779 for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 . Pillarstone accounts for its interest as an equity method investment. Pillarstone recognizes a portion of Pillarstone OP's income in its financial statements. Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders Due to the above, the Company generated net income attributable to common shareholders of $ 17,618 during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $ 88,448 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions. A summary of our significant accounting policies is provided in Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Form 10-K. The following section is a summary of certain aspects of those accounting policies that both require our most subjective judgment and are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the use of different estimates or assumptions in making these judgments could result in materially different amounts being reported in our consolidated financial statements. Valuation Allowance of Deferred Tax Asset We account for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. At March 31, 2018 , we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling $2,460,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset of $567,000, a valuation allowance of $567,000 was applied against this asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2036. Pursuant to current Code regulations, we will be limited to using $1,881,000 of the prior net operating losses of $11,196,000, and these same regulations also limit the amount of loss used in any one year. Additionally, use of our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited in the event of a change in ownership of the Company. 12 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operations, equity transactions, and borrowings from affiliates and lending institutions have generally provided the primary sources of liquidity to the Company. Historically, the Company has used these sources to fund operating expenses, satisfy its debt service obligations and fund distributions to shareholders. During most of 2016, we were dependent on cash provided by loans in 2015 of $197,780 from five trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for convertible notes payable (see Note 4 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements). The funds were utilized for due diligence costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and execution of the Acquisition and related transaction documents as well as maintaining the Company's status as a smaller reporting company current in its periodic filings with the SEC. We have kept the public entity available for value-added real estate opportunities, including (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. During 2017 and 2018 we have been dependent on cash distributions from Pillarstone OP generated through Pillarstone OP's ownership of real estate assets acquired in the Acquisition. Excess funds can be invested in cash equivalents depending on market conditions. Cash Flows As of March 31, 2018 , our unrestricted cash resources were $174,814 . We are dependent on cash distributions from Pillarstone OP generated through Pillarstone OP's ownership of the Real Estate Assets acquired in the Acquisition to meet our liquidity needs and have received distributions of $115,155 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . We had cash and cash equivalents of $174,814 as of March 31, 2018 , as compared to $179,385 on December 31, 2017 . The decrease of $4,571 was the result of cash used in operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we had no investing or financing activities. Cash used for continuing operations included general and administrative costs, primarily for keeping Pillarstone current in its SEC filings so that we may make or enter into additional real estate transactions or acquire or combine with another real estate company. Future Obligations The Company does not directly participate in any revenue generating activities, and as such, we currently have no cash from operations and have reduced our day-to-day overhead expenses and material future obligations. However, during December 2016, the Company, through the Contribution Agreement and its resulting 18.6% equity investment in Pillarstone OP, became a party to income generating activities. Until the time that this investment results in significant cash distributions to the Company, we intend to maintain reduced overhead expenses by issuing common shares for our trustee fees, retaining the employees on a part-time unpaid basis, and not replacing employees who have left. We have also reduced the use of outside consultants and negotiated discounts on or eliminated other expenses wherever possible. Long Term Liquidity and Operating Strategies Historically, we have financed our long term capital needs, including acquisitions, as follows: borrowings from new loans; additional equity issuances of our common and preferred shares; and proceeds from the sales of our marketable securities. From 2006 until December 2016, the Company continued its existence as a corporate shell filing its current quarterly and annual reports with the SEC so that it could be used for future real estate transactions or sold to another company. During this time, the Company was funded by its trustees who contributed $500,000 in exchange for 125,000 Class C Convertible Preferred Shares and $197,780 in exchange for convertible notes payable. Subsequent to the Acquisition through which Pillarstone OP acquired the Real Estate Assets, Pillarstone intends to develop strategies for the Properties in order to create value for the enterprise and our shareholders. As part of the Acquisition, Pillarstone OP and Whitestone OP have agreed that Pillarstone OP may require Whitestone OP to purchase up to an aggregate of $3.0 million of additional OP Units from Pillarstone OP at $1.331 per unit over a two year period. To implement the strategy to create value with the Real Estate Assets, additional capital will need to be raised. 13 Current Tax Status At March 31, 2018 , we have net operating loss carryforwards of $2,460,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset, a valuation allowance was applied against the asset because of the uncertainty as to whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2036. In the event of a change of ownership of the Company, our ability (or the ability of any company that acquires or merges with us) to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited by federal tax regulations. We and our subsidiary are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Interest Rates and Inflation The Company was not significantly affected by inflation during the periods presented in this report due primarily to the relative low nationwide inflation rates and the Company having minimal operations with an equity investment in Pillarstone OP. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 14