ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Information This report on Form 10-Q contains historical information, as well as forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and relate to future events, our future financial performance, or our expected future operations and actions. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, future, intend, could, hope, predict, target, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are only our predictions based upon current information and involve numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Our actual results or actions may differ materially from these forward-looking statements for many reasons. While it is impossible to identify all such factors, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by us include: uncertainties related to the national economy, including liquidity in the capital markets and lending requirements imposed by financial institutions; changes in values for commercial real estate properties and companies; increases in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds; decreases in market prices of the shares of publicly traded real estate companies; adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; and other factors which are beyond our control. In addition, an investment in the Company involves numerous risks that potential investors should consider carefully, including, without limitation: we have no operating assets; our cash resources are limited; we have a history of losses; we have not raised funds through a public equity offering; our trustees control a significant percentage of our voting shares; shareholders could experience possible future dilution through the issuance of additional equity; we are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals who are part-time employees; and we currently do not plan to distribute dividends to the holders of our shares. The forward-looking statements should be read in light of these factors and the factors identified in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC on February 5, 2016. - 10 - Overview Pillarstone Capital is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) and a Maryland REIT primarily focused on maintaining its trust existence and SEC reporting history to enable it, in the future, to raise additional capital and make real estate investments. Future real estate investments may include (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. As of June 30, 2016, the Company is a shell company current in its SEC filings, that may make future real estate investments or be sold to another company. While the Company has initiated due diligence for acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to close a transaction or keep the Company currently filed with the SEC. Even if our management is successful in closing a transaction, investors may not value the transaction or the current filing status with the SEC in the same manner as we did, and investors may not value the transaction as they would value other transactions or alternatives. Failure to obtain external sources of capital will materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to continue operations, as well as its liquidity and financial results. Executive Overview The Company was formed on March 15, 1994 as a Maryland REIT. We operated as a traditional real estate investment trust by buying, selling, owning and operating commercial and residential properties through December 31, 1999. In 2000, the Company purchased a software technology company, resulting in the Company not meeting the qualifications to be a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of the technology segment. On November 20, 2015, five trustees on our board of trustees loaned $197,780 to the Company in exchange for convertible notes payable. The loan was made to allow the Company to maintain its existence as a shell company current in its SEC filings so that the Company may be used for future real estate transactions or sold to another company. Excess funds may be invested in marketable securities of other real estate companies depending on market conditions. In the second quarter of 2016, we incurred $57,000 for due diligence costs to analyze acquisition opportunities and legal fees for reorganizing the corporate structure. On February 19, 2016, the Company filed its Definitive Proxy Statement containing five proposals for shareholder approval. The proposals included electing six trustees to three classes with terms expiring for each class in 2017, 2018, and 2019; amending and restating the declaration of trust; approving the 2016 Plan; approving in a non-binding advisory vote the compensation of the executive officers; and approving in a non-binding advisory vote the frequency of when future voting of the compensation of the executive officers would occur. At the 2016 Annual Meeting, all proposals were approved by the shareholders. As part of the amended and restated declaration of trust, the name of the Company was changed to Pillarstone Capital REIT. After the proxy statement was filed and before the 2016 Annual Meeting, one of our trustees, Michael T. Oliver, passed away. Mr. Oliver joined the board of trustees in 2003 and served as Chairman of the Audit Committee. On June 27, 2016, the board of trustees appointed Dennis Chookaszian as trustee to fill the vacant board seat. Mr. Chookaszian will serve as a Class III trustee until his term expires at the 2017 annual meeting of shareholders, at which he will stand for election by the Companys shareholders. In addition, the board of trustees appointed Mr. Chookaszian as Chair of the Audit Committee. - 11 - Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations for the six month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 and financial condition, including: Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the six month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six month period ended June 30, 2015. Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three month period ended June 30, 2015. Our critical accounting policies and estimates that require our subjective judgment and are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary sources and uses of cash for the six month periods ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015, and how we intend to generate cash for long-term capital needs. Our current income tax status. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein. Comparison of the Six Month Periods Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues from Operations There was no revenue for the six month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. This was the result of no operations or temporary investments in marketable securities. Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised of general and administrative expenses and interest expense, increased $84,160 from $30,729 for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 to $105,027 for the six month period ended June 30, 2016. This increase is the result of costs of $57,000 incurred for due diligence costs to analyze acquisition opportunities and legal fees for reorganizing the corporate structure, $12,762 for filing and mailing a definitive proxy statement in the first quarter of 2016, increased interest expense of $9,862 for the convertible notes payable issued November 20, 2015, increased accounting expenses of $3,175, increased transfer agent and SEC filing fees of $969, and increased other expenses of $392. Loss from Operations and Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders As a result of the above, the loss from operations and net loss attributable to common shareholders increased $84,160 from $30,729 for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 to $114,889 for the six month period ended June 30, 2016. Comparison of the Three Month Periods Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues from Operations There was no revenue for the three month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. This was the result of no operations or temporary investments in marketable securities. Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised of general and administrative expenses and interest expense, increased $64,171 from $10,687 for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 to $74,858 for the three month period ended June 30, 2016. This increase is the result of $57,000 of cost incurred in analyzing potential acquisitions and reorganizing the corporate structure, increased interest expense of $4,931 for the convertible notes payable issued November 20, 2015, increased accounting expenses of $1,000, and increased transfer agent and SEC filing fees of $1,484 offset by decreased other expenses of $244. - 12 - Loss from Operations and Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders As a result of the above, the loss from operations and net loss attributable to common shareholders increased $64,171 from $10,687 for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 to $74,858 for the three month period ended June 30, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to make certain estimates and assumptions. A summary of our significant accounting policies is provided in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. The following section is a summary of certain aspects of those accounting policies that both require our most subjective judgment and are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the use of different estimates or assumptions in making these judgments could result in materially different amounts being reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation Allowance of Deferred Tax Asset Because we have not elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we account for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. At June 30, 2016, we have a net operating loss and at December 31, 2015, we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $2,575,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset, a full valuation allowance was applied against this asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards that will expire in varying amounts through the year 2035. We and our subsidiary are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operations, equity transactions, and borrowings from affiliates and lending institutions have generally provided the primary sources of liquidity to the Company. Historically, the Company has used these sources to fund operating expenses, satisfy its debt service obligations and fund distributions to shareholders. Presently, we are dependent on our existing cash, which was provided by loans of $197,780 from five trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for convertible notes payable in November 2015. The funds have been and continue to be used for the Company to maintain its status as a shell company current in its SEC filings so that the Company may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company. We have kept the public entity available for value-added real estate opportunities, including (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. Excess funds may be invested in marketable securities of other real estate companies depending on market conditions. Cash of $93,111 at June 30, 2016 is estimated to allow the Company to continue its SEC filings for the next twelve months. To further conserve cash, in 2006 each trustee signed a restricted share agreement with the Company to receive a total of 12,500 restricted Preferred Class C Shares in lieu of receiving fees in cash for service as a trustee for the two years ending September 29, 2008. The service period ending date and vesting period date for those agreements have been extended to September 30, 2016. Additionally, in 2006, James C. Mastandrea, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the board of trustees, signed a subscription agreement to purchase 44,444 restricted Preferred Class C Shares. The consideration for the purchase was Mr. Mastandreas services as an officer of Pillarstone Capital until September 29, 2008. The service period ending date and vesting period date for this agreement have been extended to September 30, 2016, though the shares were fully amortized by the original date in 2008. - 13 - Cash Flows As of June 30, 2016, our unrestricted cash resources were $93,111. We are dependent on our existing cash, loaned by five trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for convertible notes payable, to meet our liquidity needs because we do not have cash from operations to meet our operating requirements. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Companys cash balance decreased by $81,172 from $174,283 at December 31, 2015 to $93,111 at June 30, 2016. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, we used $81,172 to continue to maintain the Company as a shell company current in its SEC filings, including the filing and mailing of our definitive proxy statement filed in connection the 2016 Annual Meeting, to initiate due diligence for acquisition opportunities, and to reorganize the corporate structure. Future Obligations Because the Company is a shell company that may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company, we have no cash from operations and have reduced our day-to-day overhead expenses and material future obligations. We have reduced overhead expenses by issuing equity for our CEOs salary and trustee fees, placed our other employee on a part-time unpaid basis, and have not replaced employees who have left. We have eliminated our office space and rent, and reduced the use of outside consultants, negotiating discounts on or eliminated expenses wherever possible. Long Term Liquidity and Operating Strategies Historically, we have financed our long term capital needs, including acquisitions, as follows: borrowings from new loans; additional equity issuances of our common and preferred shares; and proceeds from the sales of our real estate, a technology segment, and marketable securities. Because our unrestricted cash is not sufficient to allow us to continue operations, we have been reviewing other alternatives, including selling the trust entity and seeking additional investors. In 2006 and 2007, the Company received total payments of $500,000 from three independent trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for Preferred Class C Shares. In November 2015, five trustees on our board of trustees loaned the Company $197,780 in exchange for convertible notes payable. These funds have been and continue to be used to maintain the Company as a shell company current in its SEC filings while it searches for and reviews other value added real estate opportunities. Excess funds may be invested in marketable securities of other real est ate companies depending on market conditions. Current Tax Status At June 30, 2016, we have a net operating loss, and at December 31, 2015, we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $2,575,000. While the losses created a deferred tax asset, a full valuation allowance was applied against the asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards that will expire in varying amounts through the year 2035. In the event of a change of ownership of the Company, our ability (or the ability of any company that acquires or merges with us) to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited by federal tax regulations. - 14 - We, and our subsidiary, are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Interest Rates and Inflation We were not significantly affected by inflation during the periods presented in this report primarily due to the relative low nationwide inflation rates and the Company being a shell company with minimal expenses. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. - 15 -