Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview Pillarstone Capital REIT is a Maryland real estate investment trust engaged in investing in, owning and operating commercial properties. Future real estate investments may include (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. Substantially all of our business is conducted through our operating partnership Pillarstone OP, a Delaware limited partnership organized in 2016. We are the sole general partner of Pillarstone OP. As of December 31, 2017 , we owned approximately 18.6% of the outstanding equity in Pillarstone OP and Whitestone OP owned approximately 81.4% of the outstanding equity in Pillarstone OP as of December 31, 2017 . We account for Pillarstone OP on our financial statements using the equity method. As of December 31, 2017 , the Company is a smaller reporting company current in its quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the SEC, that may make future real estate investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to close additional transactions. Even if our management is successful in closing additional transactions, investors may not value the transactions or the Company in the same manner as we do, and investors may not value the transactions as they would value other transactions or alternatives. Failure to obtain additional sources of capital will materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to continue operations, as well as its liquidity and financial results. Brief History Pillarstone was formed on March 15, 1994 as a Maryland REIT. The Company operated as a traditional real estate investment trust by buying, selling, owning and operating commercial and residential properties through December 31, 1999. In 2000, the Company purchased a software technology company, resulting in the Company not meeting the qualifications to be a REIT under the Code. In 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of the technology segment, and from 2003 through 2006, pursued a value-added business plan primarily focused on acquiring well located, under-performing multi-family residential properties, including affordable housing communities, and repositioning them through renovation, leasing, improved management and branding. Recent Developments and Executive Overview During most of 2016, the Company existed as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings. On December 8, 2016, Pillarstone and Pillarstone OP entered into the Contribution Agreement with Whitestone OP, a subsidiary and the operating partnership of Whitestone, both of which are related parties to Pillarstone and Pillarstone OP, pursuant to which Whitestone OP contributed to Pillarstone OP all of the equity interests in four of its wholly-owned subsidiaries: CP Woodland; Industrial-Office; Whitestone Offices; and Uptown Tower that own the Real Estate Assets for aggregate consideration of approximately $84 million , consisting of (1) approximately $18.1 million of Class A units representing limited partnership interests in Pillarstone OP issued at a price of $1.331 per OP Unit; and (2) the assumption of approximately $65.9 million of liabilities by Pillarstone OP. As of December 31, 2017 , Whitestone OP owns approximately 81.4% of the outstanding equity in Pillarstone OP. We account for Pillarstone OP on our financial statements using the equity method. Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations and comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 and financial condition, including: Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 . Our critical accounting policies and estimates that require our subjective judgment and are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary sources and uses of cash for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and how we intend to generate cash for long-term capital needs. Our current income tax status. 7 Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenues from Operations Total revenues remained flat at $0 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . During 2015 and through December 7, 2016, the Company existed as a shell corporation with no revenue producing activities. Historically, the Company's only revenues consisted of interest income from equity securities. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , we held no equity securities and our decision to invest in equity securities on a temporary basis in 2018 is dependent on market conditions and the availability of cash to invest. Accordingly, we anticipate nominal revenue in 2018. Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised mostly of general and administrative expenses, decreased $ 219,018 , from $ 511,757 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $ 292,739 for the year ended December 31, 2017 . This net decrease is due to decreases in legal fees of $ 333,731 and other professional fees of $ 51,492 offset by increased accounting fees of $ 117,145 , SEC filing charges and transfer agent fees of $ 10,036 , acquisition expense of $ 19,716 and miscellaneous expenses of $ 19,308 . The aforementioned decreases in expenses occurred primarily as a result of the completion of the preparation and execution of the Contribution Agreement and other transaction documents executed in connection with the Acquisition. Loss from Operations As a result of the above, the loss from operations decreased $ 219,018 from $ 511,757 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $ 292,739 for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Equity in Income of Pillarstone OP The increase of $ 260,537 in equity in income of Pillarstone OP occurred as a result of a full year of activity under the Contribution Agreement entered into on December 8, 2016 whereby Pillarstone purchased an 18.6% interest in Pillarstone OP. As Pillarstone accounts for this interest purchased as an equity method investment, Pillarstone recognizes a portion of Pillarstone OP's income and loss in its financial statements. Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders Based on the above, the net loss attributable to common shareholders decreased $ 479,555 from $ 496,981 for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $ 17,426 for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operations, equity transactions, and borrowings from affiliates and lending institutions have generally provided the primary sources of liquidity to the Company. Historically, the Company has used these sources to fund operating expenses, satisfy its debt service obligations and fund distributions to shareholders. During 2016 , we were dependent on cash provided by loans in 2015 of $197,780 from five trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for convertible notes payable. The funds were utilized for part of the due diligence costs incurred in connection with the development and execution of the Contribution Agreement and other transaction documents executed in connection with the Acquisition as well as maintaining the Company's status as a smaller reporting company current in its quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the SEC. We have kept the public entity available for value-added real estate opportunities, including (i) acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, and other commercial properties, (ii) acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and (iii) joint venture investments. During 2017 , we were dependent on cash distributions from Pillarstone OP generated through Pillarstone OP's ownership of the Real Estate Assets acquired in the Acquisition. Excess funds can be invested in cash equivalents depending on market conditions. Cash Flows As of December 31, 2017 , our unrestricted cash resources were $179,385 . During 2016 , we were dependent on cash loaned during 2015 by five trustees on our board of trustees in exchange for convertible notes payable, to meet our liquidity needs because we did not have cash from operations to meet our operating requirements. During 2017 , we were dependent on cash distributions from Pillarstone OP generated through Pillarstone OP's ownership of the Real Estate Assets acquired in the Acquisition. During 2018, and future years, we will be dependent on these cash distributions from Pillarstone OP to meet our liquidity needs. 8 During the year ended December 31, 2017 , the Company's cash balance increased by $ 171,940 from $7,445 at December 31, 2016 to $179,385 at December 31, 2017 . During 2017 , we had no cash financing activities. Cash provided by investing activities of $ 85,482 was primarily from regular distributions in connection with the Contribution Agreement from Pillarstone OP in excess of the Company's investment in Pillarstone OP. Cash provided by operations of $ 86,458 included general and administrative costs, primarily for legal and professional costs associated with consummating the Contribution Agreement and other transaction documents executed in connection with the Acquisition, and for keeping Pillarstone current in its SEC filings so that it may be used for additional real estate transactions. Future Obligations The Company does not directly participate in any revenue generating activities, and as such, we currently have no cash from operations and have reduced our day-to-day overhead expenses and material future obligations. However, during December 2016, the Company, through the Contribution Agreement and its resulting 18.6% equity investment in Pillarstone OP, became a party to income generating activities. While the Company is developing strategies for the Real Estate Assets, we maintain reduced overhead expenses by issuing shares for our CEOs salary and trustee fees, retaining our employees on a part-time unpaid basis, and not replacing employees who have left. We have also reduced the use of outside consultants, and negotiated discounts on or eliminated other expenses wherever possible. Long Term Liquidity and Operating Strategies Historically, we have financed our long term capital needs, including acquisitions, as follows: borrowings from new loans; additional equity issuances of our common and preferred shares; and proceeds from the sales of our real estate, a technology segment, and marketable securities. From 2006 until December 2016, the Company continued its existence as a corporate shell filing its quarterly and annual reports with the SEC so that it could be used for future real estate transactions or sold to another company. During this time, the Company was funded by the trustees who contributed $500,000 in exchange for 125,000 Class C Convertible Preferred Shares and $197,780 in exchange for convertible notes payable. Subsequent to the Acquisition through which Pillarstone OP acquired the Real Estate Assets, Pillarstone intends to develop strategies for the properties in order to create value for the enterprise and our shareholders. As part of the Acquisition, Pillarstone OP and Whitestone OP have agreed that Pillarstone OP may require Whitestone OP to purchase up to an aggregate of $3.0 million of additional OP Units from Pillarstone OP at $1.331 per unit over a two year period. To implement the strategy to create value with the Real Estate Assets, additional capital will need to be raised. Current Tax Status At December 31, 2017 , we have net operating loss carryforwards of $2,510,000 . While these losses created a deferred tax asset, a valuation allowance was applied against the asset because of the uncertainty as to whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2038 . In the event of a change of ownership of the Company, our ability (or the ability of any company that acquires or merges with us) to use our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited by federal tax regulations. We and our subsidiary are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Interest Rates and Inflation The Company was not significantly affected by inflation during the periods presented in this report due primarily to the relative low nationwide inflation rates and the Company being a corporate shell with minimal expenses. 9 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require us to make certain estimates and assumptions. The following section is a summary of certain estimates that both require our most subjective judgment and are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the use of different estimates or assumptions in making these judgments could result in materially different amounts being reported in our consolidated financial statements. Valuation Allowance of Deferred Tax Asset We account for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. At December 31, 2017 , we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling $2,510,000 . While these losses created a deferred tax asset of $571,000 , a valuation allowance of $571,000 was applied against this asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2038 . Pursuant to current Code regulations, we will be limited to using $651,600 of the prior net operating losses of $11,246,000 , and these same regulations also limit the amount of loss used in any one year. Additionally, use of our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited in the event of a change in ownership of the Company.