ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Paragon Real Estate Equity and Investment Trust (the Company, Paragon, we, our, or us) is a Maryland shell corporation primarily focused on maintaining its corporate existence and SEC reporting history to enable it, in the future, to raise additional capital and make real estate investments. Future real estate investments may include acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, other commercial properties, acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company and joint venture investments. Presently, the Company is a corporate shell, current in its SEC filings, that may be used in the future for real estate opportunities or sold to another company. B ecause our cash and other liquid assets are not sufficient to allow us to continue operations, we have been reviewing other alternatives, including seeking additional investors or pursuing a business combination that would result in additional capitalization of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to close a transaction or keep the Company currently filed with the SEC. Even if our management is successful in closing a transaction, investors may not value the transaction or the current filing status with the SEC in the same manner as we did, and investors may not value the transaction as they would value other transactions or alternatives. Failure to obtain external sources of capital will materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to continue operations, as well as its liquidity and financial results. Brief History Paragon was formed on March 15, 1994 as a Maryland real estate investment trust (REIT). We operated as a traditional REIT by buying, selling, owning and operating commercial and residential properties through December 31, 1999. In 2000, the Company purchased a software technology company, resulting in the Company not meeting the Internal Revenue Code qualifications to be a REIT for federal tax purposes. In 2002, the Company ceased operating the technology segment. Forward-Looking Information This report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and these statements and/or ownership of our securities may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance, and achievements of the Company to be materially different from results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that these expectations will be realized. The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations include, but are not limited to, our failure to obtain adequate financing to continue our operations, changes in general economic conditions, changes in real estate conditions, fluctuations in market prices if we invest, on a temporary basis, in publicly traded real estate companies, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in our current filing status with the SEC, the cost or general availability of equity and debt financing, failure to acquire properties in accordance with our value added strategy, unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition and integration of our acquisitions, our ability to obtain adequate insurance for terrorist acts, and potential liability under environmental or other laws. For further information, refer to our consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 3 The following is a discussion of our results of operations for the six month periods ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 and financial condition, including: Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 compared to the six month period ended June 30, 201 4 . Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three month period ended June 30 , 2015 compared to the three month period ended June 30 , 2014 . Our critical accounting policies and estimates that require our subjective judgment and are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary sources and uses of cash for the six month periods ended June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2014, and how we intend to generate cash for long-term capital needs. Our current income tax status. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein. Results of Operations Comparison of the Six Month Periods Ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenues from Operations Total revenues decreased $3 from $3 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $0 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2015 . This decrease was the result of decreased amounts invested in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. The Company sold its investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2013 and is investing its funds in the insured deposit account. Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised of general and administrative expenses, decreased $3,294 from $34,023 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $30,729 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2015. This net decrease is the result of decreased accounting and legal expenses of $5,152 partially offset by increased SEC filing charges, transfer agent fees and directors and officers liability insurance expenses of $1,858. Loss from Operations and Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders As a result of the above, the loss from operations and net loss attributable to common shareholders decreased $3,291 from $34,020 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $30,729 for the six month period ended June 30 , 2015. Comparison of the Three Month Periods Ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenues from Operations Total revenues decreased $1 from $1 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $0 for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 . This decrease was the result of decreased amounts invested in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. The Company sold its investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2013 and is investing its funds in the insured deposit account. 4 Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised of general and administrative expenses, decreased $1,194 from $11,881 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $10,687 for the three month period ended June 30, 2015. This net decrease is the result of decreased accounting fees of $1,300 offset by increased directors and officers liability insurance and transfer agent expenses of $106. Loss from Operations As a result of the above, the loss from operations decreased $1,193 from $11,880 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2014 to $10,687 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2015. Gain/Loss on Sale of Marketable Securities In the three month period ended June 30, 2015, investments in marketable securities was cash in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. We transferred $8,000 from this account to the operating account in the three month period ended June 30, 2015, and there was no gain or loss. In the three month period ended June 30, 2014, investments in marketable securities was cash in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. We transferred $12,000 from this account to the operating account in the three month period ended June 30, 2014, and there was no gain or loss. Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders As a result of the above, we had a net loss attributable to Common Shareholders of $11,880 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2014 compared to a net loss attributable to Common Shareholders of $10,687 for the three month period ended June 30 , 2015, a decrease in net loss of $1,193. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to make certain estimates and assumptions. A summary of our significant accounting policies is provided in Note 3 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. The following section is a summary of certain aspects of those accounting policies that both require our most subjective judgment and are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the use of different estimates or assumptions in making these judgments could result in materially different amounts being reported in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation Allowance of Deferred Tax Asset We account for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. At June 30, 2015, we have a net operating loss and at December 31, 2014, we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $2,507,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset, a full valuation allowance was applied against this asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2034. We and our subsidiary are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. 5 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operations, equity transactions, and borrowings from affiliates and lending institutions have generally provided the primary sources of liquidity to the Company. Historically, the Company has used these sources to fund operating expenses, satisfy its debt service obligations and fund distributions to shareholders. Presently, w e are dependent on our existing cash, which was provided by three independent trustees contributing $500,000 in exchange for Class C Convertible Preferred Shares to maintain the Company as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings so that it may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company. We have kept the public entity available for value-added real estate opportunities, including acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, other commercial properties, acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and joint venture investments. Excess funds are invested in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. To further conserve cash, in 2006 each trustee signed a restricted share agreement with the Company to receive a total of 12,500 restricted Class C Convertible Preferred Shares in lieu of receiving fees in cash for service as a trustee for the two years ending September 29, 2008. The service period ending date and vesting period date for those agreements have been extended to September 30, 2015. Additionally, in 2006, James C. Mastandrea, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Company, signed a subscription agreement to purchase 44,444 restricted Class C Convertible Preferred Shares. The consideration for the purchase was Mr. Mastandreas services as an officer of Paragon until September 29, 2008. The service period ending date and vesting period date for this agreement have been extended to September 30, 2015 , though the shares were fully amortized by the original date in 2008 . Based on our current rate of operating expenses, and in order to continue to maintain the Company as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings additional capital will need to be raised in the third quarter of 2015. Cash Flows At June 30 , 2015 , our cash was $1,407 and an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm was $1,379. We are dependent on our existing cash, contributed by three independent trustees in exchange for Class C Convertible Preferred Shares, to meet our liquidity needs because we do not have cash from operations to meet our operating requirements. The cash in both the operating account and the insured deposit account is available to pay expenses to keep the Company current in its SEC filings. During the six months ended June 30 , 2015, we transferred $18,000 to the operating account. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, we transferred $58,000 to the operating account. Future Obligations Because the Company is a corporate shell that may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company, we have no cash from operations and have reduced our day-to-day overhead expenses and material future obligations. We have reduced overhead expenses by issuing stock for our CEOs salary and trustee fees, placed our other employee on a part-time unpaid basis, and have not replaced employees who have left. We have eliminated our office space and rent, and reduced the use of outside consultants, negotiating discounts on prices wherever possible, and foregoing other expenses. Long Term Liquidity and Operating Strategies Our cash of $1,407 and our insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm of $1,379 is not sufficient to meet the Companys anticipated short-term obligations and additional capital will need to be raised in the third quarter of 2015. We historically have financed our long term capital needs, including acquisitions, from borrowings from new loans; additional equity issuances of our common and preferred shares; and proceeds from the sales of our real estate, a technology segment, and marketable securities. 6 Because our unrestricted cash is not sufficient to allow us to continue operations, we have been reviewing other alternatives, including selling the corporate entity and seeking additional investors. In 2006 and 2007, the Company received total payments of $500,000 from three independent trustees for payment of Class C Convertible Preferred Shares. These funds have been and continue to be used to maintain Paragon as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings while it searches for and reviews other value added real estate opportunities. Excess funds are invested in cash in an insured deposit account at a securities brokerage firm. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to maintain its current filing status or successfully close a future transaction. Current Tax Status At June 30 , 2015 , we have a net operating loss, and at December 31, 2014, we had net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $2,507,000. While the losses created a deferred tax asset, a full valuation allowance was applied against the asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryforwards, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2034. In the event of a change of ownership of the Company, our ability (or the ability of any company that acquires or merges with us) to use our net operating loss carryover will be limited by federal tax regulations. We and our subsidiary are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Interest Rates and Inflation We were not significantly affected by inflation during the periods presented in this report due primarily to the relative low nationwide inflation rates and the Company being a corporate shell with minimal expenses. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 7