Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains historical information, as well as forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and relate to future events, our future financial performance, or our expected future operations and actions. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, future, intend, could, hope, predict, target, potential, or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are only our predictions based upon current information and involve numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Our actual results or actions may differ materially from these forward-looking statements for many reasons. While it is impossible to identify all such factors, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by us include: uncertainties related to the national economy, including liquidity in the capital markets and lending requirements imposed by financial institutions; changes in values for commercial real estate properties and companies; increases in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds; decreases in market prices of the shares of publicly traded real estate companies; adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; and other factors which are beyond our control. In addition, an investment in the Company involves numerous risks that potential investors should consider carefully, including, without limitation: we have no operating assets; our cash resources are limited; we have a history of losses; we have not raised funds through a public equity offering; our trustees control a significant percentage of our voting shares; shareholders could experience possible future dilution through the issuance of additional shares; we are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals who are part-time employees; and we currently do not plan to distribute dividends to the holders of our shares. 5 Overview Paragon Real Estate Equity and Investment Trust (the Company, Paragon, we, our, or us) is a Maryland shell corporation primarily focused on maintaining its corporate existence and SEC reporting history to enable it, in the future, to raise additional capital and make real estate investments. Future real estate investments may include acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, other commercial properties, acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company and joint venture investments. Excess funds are invested in liquid marketable securities and cash equivalents. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through much of 2011, capital markets had limited access for small companies, like Paragon, and financing was difficult to obtain for real estate transactions. While equity and debt markets were active in 2013 and 2014, Paragon did not have any transactions to raise capital. Excess funds are invested cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2014, the Company is a corporate shell current in its SEC filings, that may be used in the future for real estate investments or sold to another company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to close a transaction or keep the Company currently filed with the SEC. Even if our management is successful in closing a transaction, investors may not value the transaction or the current filing status with the SEC in the same manner as we did, and investors may not value the transaction as they would value other transactions or alternatives. Failure to obtain external sources of capital will materially and adversely affect the Companys ability to continue operations, as well as its liquidity and financial results. Brief History Paragon was formed on March 15, 1994 as a Maryland real estate investment trust (REIT). We operated as a traditional real estate investment trust by buying, selling, owning and operating commercial and residential properties through December 31, 1999. In 2000, the Company purchased a software technology company, resulting in the Company not meeting the Internal Revenue Code qualifications to be a REIT for federal tax purposes. In 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of the technology segment. Recent Developments and Executive Overview During 2014, the Company continued as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings. Excess funds are invested in cash equivalents. Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations and comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and financial condition, including: Explanation of changes in the results of operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Net Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Our critical accounting policies and estimates that require our subjective judgment and are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary sources and uses of cash for the year ended December 31, 2014, and how we intend to generate cash for long-term capital needs. Our current income tax status. Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenues from Operations Total revenues decreased $450 from $454 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $4 for the year ended December 31, 2014. Revenues consisted of interest and dividend income for the year ended December 31, 2013 and interest income for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease in interest and dividend income was due to having a lower amount invested in equity securities in the year ended December 31, 2014 than in the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2014, we held no equity securities and our decision to invest in equity securities on a temporary basis in 2015 is dependent on market variables and the availability of cash to invest. Accordingly, we anticipate nominal revenue in 2015. 6 Expenses from Operations Total expenses, comprised mostly of general and administrative expenses, increased $592, from $56,882 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $57,474 for the year ended December 31, 2014. This net increase is mostly due to increases in D&O insurance, accounting, and XBRL and SEC filing charges offset by a decrease in legal fees. Loss from operations As a result of the above, the loss from operations increased $1,042 from $56,428 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $57,470 for the year ended December 31, 2014. Gain on sale of marketable securities In the year ended December 31, 2014, we did not sell any marketable securities. In the year ended December 31, 2013, we sold 3,325 shares of marketable securities of eight companies for $76,341, which had a cost basis of $73,568, and recorded a gain on the sale of marketable securities of $2,773. Net loss attributable to Common Shareholders Based on the above, the net loss attributable to Common Shareholders increased from $53,655 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $57,470 for the year ended December 31, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash provided by operations, equity transactions, and borrowings from affiliates and lending institutions have generally provided the primary sources of liquidity to the Company. Historically, the Company has used these sources to fund operating expenses, satisfy its debt service obligations and fund distributions to shareholders. Presently, we are dependent on our existing cash, which was provided by three independent trustees contributing $500,000 in exchange for Class C Convertible Preferred Shares to maintain the Company as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings so that it may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company. We have kept the public entity available for value-added real estate opportunities, including acquisition and development of retail, office, office warehouse, industrial, multifamily, hotel, other commercial properties, acquisition of or merger with a REIT or real estate operating company, and joint venture investments. Excess funds are invested in cash equivalents. Cash Flows As of December 31, 2014, our unrestricted cash resources were $10,726. We are dependent on our existing cash, contributed by three independent trustees in exchange for Class C Convertible Preferred Shares, to meet our liquidity needs because we do not have cash from operations to meet our operating requirements. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Companys cash balance increased by $1,083 from $9,643 at December 31, 2013 to $10,726 at December 31, 2014. During 2014, we received net cash of $57,996 from transferring cash from an account at a securities brokerage firm to the operating account and used $56,913 in continuing operations. Cash used for continuing operations included general and administrative costs, primarily for maintaining Paragon as a corporate shell and to keep it current in its SEC filings so that it may be used in the future for real estate opportunities or sold to another company. 7 Future Obligations Because the Company is a corporate shell that may be used in the future for real estate transactions or sold to another company, we have no cash from operations and have reduced our day-to-day overhead expenses and material future obligations. We have reduced overhead expenses by issuing stock for our CEOs salary and trustee fees, placed our other employee on a part-time unpaid basis, and have not replaced employees who have left. We have eliminated our office space and rent, and reduced the use of outside consultants, negotiating discounts on prices wherever possible, and foregoing other expenses. Long Term Liquidity and Operating Strategies We historically have financed our long term capital needs, including acquisitions, as follows: Borrowings from new loans; Additional equity issuances of our common and preferred shares; and Proceeds from the sales of our real estate, a technology segment, and marketable securities. Because our unrestricted cash is not sufficient to allow us to continue operations, we have been reviewing other alternatives, including selling the corporate entity and seeking additional investors. In 2006 and 2007, the Company received total payments of $500,000 from three independent trustees for payment of Class C Convertible Preferred Shares. These funds have been and continue to be used to maintain Paragon as a corporate shell current in its SEC filings while it searches for and reviews other value added real estate opportunities. Excess funds are invested in cash equivalents. Current Tax Status At December 31, 2014, we have a net operating loss carryover of $2,507,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset, a valuation allowance was applied against the asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryovers, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2034. In the event of a change of ownership of the Company, our ability (or the ability of any company that acquires or merges with us) to use our net operating loss carryover will be limited by federal tax regulations. We, and our subsidiary, are also subject to certain state and local income, excise and franchise taxes. The provision for state and local taxes has been reflected in general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations and has not been separately stated due to its insignificance. Interest Rates and Inflation Interest rates fell during 2008 as the Federal Reserve Bank lowered the discount rate and remained low through 2014. While interest rates are at record lows, capital markets were generally not accessible by small real estate companies, like Paragon in 2009 through 2011 and debt financing was only available to larger creditworthy companies. Financial institutions tightened financial covenant tests, decreased loan-to-value ratios, and charged higher fees for loans, which has reduced the number of real estate transactions. During 2013 and 2014, credit markets were more active though Paragon did not have any transactions to raise capital. We were not significantly affected by inflation during the periods presented in this report due primarily to the relative low nationwide inflation rates and the Company being a corporate shell with minimal expenses. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 8 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require us to make certain estimates and assumptions. The following section is a summary of certain estimates that both require our most subjective judgment and are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that the use of different estimates or assumptions in making these judgments could result in materially different amounts being reported in our consolidated financial statements. Valuation Allowance of Deferred Tax Asset We account for income taxes using the liability method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. At December 31, 2014, we had a net operating loss carryover totaling $2,507,000. While these losses created a deferred tax asset of $1,003,000, a valuation allowance of $1,003,000 was applied against this asset because of the uncertainty of whether we will be able to use these loss carryovers, which will expire in varying amounts through the year 2034. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code regulations, we will be limited to using $869,000 of the prior net operating losses of $11,100,000, and these same regulations also limit the amount of loss used in any one year. Additionally, use of our net operating loss carryover will be limited in the event of a change in ownership of the Company.