Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", including the "COVID-19 Pandemic," "Results of Operations", and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below. Description of Business PROG Holdings, Inc. ("we," "our," "us," the "Company," or "PROG Holdings") is a financial technology holding company that provides leading financial solutions to empower consumers and retailers. PROG Holdings has two reportable segments: (i) Progressive Leasing, an e-commerce, app-based, and in-store point-of-sale lease-to-own solutions provider; and (ii) Vive Financial ("Vive"), an omnichannel provider of second-look revolving credit products. Our Progressive Leasing segment provides consumers with lease-purchase solutions through its point-of-sale partner locations and e-commerce website partners in the United States (collectively, "POS partners"). It does so by purchasing merchandise from the POS partners desired by customers and, in turn, leasing that merchandise to the customers through a cancellable lease-to-own transaction. Progressive Leasing has no stores of its own, but rather offers lease-purchase solutions to the customers of traditional and e-commerce retailers. Our Vive segment primarily serves customers that may not qualify for traditional prime lending offers who desire to purchase goods and services from participating merchants. Vive offers customized programs, with services that include revolving loans through private label and Vive-branded credit cards. Vive's current network of POS partner locations and e-commerce websites includes furniture, mattresses, home exercise equipment, and home improvement retailers, as well as medical and dental service providers. On June 25, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Four Technologies, Inc. ("Four"), an innovative Buy Now, Pay Later company that allows shoppers to pay for merchandise through four interest-free installments. Fours proprietary platform capabilities and its base of customers and retailers expand PROG Holdings ecosystem of financial technology offerings by introducing a payment solution that further diversifies the Company's consumer fintech offerings. Shoppers use Four to purchase furniture, clothing, electronics, health and beauty products, footwear, jewelry, and other consumer goods from retailers across the United States. Four is not a reportable segment for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as its revenues, loss before income taxes, and assets are not material to the Company's condensed consolidated financial results. Basis of Presentation The preparation of the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management does not believe these estimates or assumptions will change significantly in the future absent unidentified and unforeseen events, such as unforeseen direct or indirect impacts associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and/or increasing inflation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (the "2021 Annual Report") filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2022. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the full year. 6 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PROG Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, each of which is wholly-owned. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities have been eliminated. Accounting Policies and Estimates See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2021 Annual Report for an expanded discussion of accounting policies and estimates. Earnings Per Share Earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. The computation of earnings per share assuming dilution includes the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), restricted stock awards ("RSAs"), performance share units ("PSUs") and awards issuable under the Company's employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP") (collectively, "share-based awards") as determined under the treasury stock method. The following table shows the calculation of dilutive share-based awards: Three Months Ended March 31, (Shares In Thousands) 2022 2021 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 55,402 67,730 Dilutive Effect of Share-Based Awards 304 530 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding Assuming Dilution 55,706 68,260 Approximately 1,087,000 and 289,000 weighted-average share-based awards were excluded from the computation of earnings per share assuming dilution during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, as the awards would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented. Revenue Recognition Lease Revenues and Fees Progressive Leasing provides merchandise, consisting primarily of furniture, appliances, electronics, jewelry, mobile phones and accessories, mattresses, automobile electronics and accessories, and a variety of other products, to its customers for lease under terms agreed to by the customer. Progressive Leasing offers customers of traditional and e-commerce retailers a lease-purchase solution through leases with payment terms that can generally be renewed up to 12 months. Progressive Leasing does not require deposits upon inception of customer agreements. The customer has the right to acquire ownership either through early buyout options or through payment of all required lease payments. The agreements are cancellable at any time by either party without penalty. All of Progressive Leasing's customer agreements are considered operating leases. The Company maintains ownership of the lease merchandise until all payment obligations are satisfied under the lease ownership agreements. Initial lease payments made by the customer upon lease execution are recognized as deferred revenue and are amortized as lease revenue over the estimated lease term on a straight-line basis. All other customer lease billings are earned prior to the lease payment due date and are recorded net of related sales taxes as earned. Payment due date terms include weekly, bi-weekly, semi-monthly and monthly frequencies. Initial lease payments and other cash collected in advance of being due or earned are recognized as deferred revenue within customer deposits and advance payments in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Revenue recorded prior to the payment due date results in unbilled receivables recognized in accounts receivable, net of allowances in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Lease revenues are recorded net of a provision for uncollectible renewal payments. Initial direct costs related to lease purchase agreements are capitalized as incurred and amortized as operating expense over the estimated lease term. The capitalized costs have been classified within prepaid expenses and other assets in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. 7 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Interest and Fees on Loans Receivable Interest and fees on loans receivable is primarily generated from our Vive segment. Vive extends or declines credit to an applicant through its bank partners based upon the applicant's credit rating and other factors. Qualifying applicants receive a credit card to finance their initial purchase and to use in subsequent purchases at the merchant or other participating merchants for an initial 24 -month period, which Vive may renew if the cardholder remains in good standing. Vive acquires the loan receivable from its third-party bank partners at a discount from the face value of the loan. The discount is comprised of a merchant fee discount and a promotional fee discount, if applicable. The merchant fee discount represents a pre-negotiated, nonrefundable discount that generally ranges from 3 % to 25 % of the loan face value. The discount is designed to cover the risk of loss related to the portfolio of cardholder charges and Vive's direct origination costs. The merchant fee discount and origination costs are presented net on the condensed consolidated balance sheets in loans receivable. Cardholders generally have an initial 24 -month period that the card is active. The merchant fee discount, net of the origination costs, is amortized on a net basis and is recorded as interest and fee revenue on loans receivable in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings on a straight-line basis over the initial 24 -month period. The discount from the face value of the loan on the acquisition of the loan receivable from the merchant through the third-party bank partners may also include a promotional fee discount, which generally ranges from 1 % to 8 %. The promotional fee discount is intended to compensate the holder of the loan receivable (i.e., Vive) for deferred or reduced interest rates that are offered to the cardholder for a specified period on the outstanding loan balance (generally for six , 12 or 18 months). The promotional fee discount is amortized as interest and fee revenue on loans receivable in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings on a straight-line basis over the promotional interest period (i.e., over six , 12 or 18 months, depending on the promotion). The unamortized promotional fee discount is presented net on the condensed consolidated balance sheets in loans receivable. The customer is typically required to make monthly minimum payments of at least 3.5 % of the outstanding loan balance, which includes outstanding interest. Fixed and variable interest rates, typically 27 % to 35.99 %, are compounded daily for cards that do not qualify for deferred or reduced interest promotional periods. Interest income, which is recognized based upon the amount of the loans outstanding, is recognized as interest and fees on loans receivable when earned if collectibility is reasonably assured. For credit cards that provide deferred interest, if the balance is not paid off during the promotional period or if the cardholder defaults, interest is billed to the customers at standard rates and the cumulative amount owed is charged to the cardholder account in the month that the promotional period expires. For credit cards that provide reduced interest, if the balance is not paid off during the promotional period, interest is billed to the cardholder at standard rates in the month that the promotional period expires or when the cardholder defaults. The Company recognizes interest revenue during the promotional period based on its historical experience related to cardholders that fail to pay off balances during the promotional period if collectibility is reasonably assured. Annual fees are charged to cardholders at the commencement of the loan and on each subsequent anniversary date. Annual fees are deferred and recognized into revenue on a straight-line basis over a one-year period. Under the provisions of the credit card agreements, Vive also may assess fees for missed or late payments, which are recognized as interest and fee revenue in the billing period in which they are assessed if collectibility is reasonably assured. Annual fees and other fees are recognized as interest and fee revenue on loans receivable in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable consist primarily of receivables due from customers of Progressive Leasing and amounted to $ 72.5 million and $ 66.3 million, net of allowances, as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. 8 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The Company maintains an accounts receivable allowance, which primarily relates to its Progressive Leasing operations and, to a lesser extent, receivables from Vive's POS partners. The Companys policy is to record an allowance for uncollectible renewal payments based on historical collection experience. Other qualitative factors are considered in estimating the allowance, such as current and forecasted business trends including, but not limited to, the potential unfavorable impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our businesses. We believe government stimulus measures in the first half of 2021 contributed to the favorable payment trends we experienced following those measures. Given the significant uncertainty regarding the impacts of increasing inflation and the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, a high level of estimation was involved in determining the allowance as of March 31, 2022. Therefore, actual future accounts receivable write-offs may differ materially from the allowance. If the recent increase in inflation, which has risen at a greater pace than seen in decades, continues in future periods, such a development may adversely impact our customers' ability to continue to make payments to the Company. The provision for uncollectible renewal payments is recorded as a reduction of lease revenues and fees within the condensed consolidated statements of earnings. For customer lease agreements that are past due, the Company's policy is to write-off lease receivables after 120 days. Vive's allowance for uncollectible merchant accounts receivable, which primarily relates to cardholder returns and refunds, is recorded as bad debt expense within operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings. See below for discussion of Vive's loans receivable and related allowance for loan losses. The following table shows the components of the accounts receivable allowance: Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands) 2022 2021 Beginning Balance $ 71,233 $ 56,364 Net Book Value of Accounts Written Off ( 92,933 ) ( 58,210 ) Recoveries 9,659 13,107 Accounts Receivable Provision 88,548 36,496 Ending Balance $ 76,507 $ 47,757 Lease Merchandise Progressive Leasing's merchandise consists primarily of furniture, appliances, electronics, jewelry, mobile phones and accessories, mattresses, automobile electronics and accessories, and a variety of other products, and is recorded at the lower of depreciated cost or net realizable value. Progressive Leasing depreciates lease merchandise to a 0 % salvage value generally over 12 months. Depreciation is accelerated upon early buyout. All of Progressive Leasing's merchandise, net of accumulated depreciation and allowances, represents on-lease merchandise. The Company records a provision for write-offs using the allowance method. The allowance method for lease merchandise write-offs estimates the merchandise losses incurred but not yet identified by management as of the end of the accounting period based on historical write-off experience. Other qualitative factors, such as current and forecasted customer payment trends, are considered in estimating the allowance. We believe government stimulus measures in the first half of 2021 contributed to the favorable payment trends we experienced following those measures. Given the significant uncertainty regarding the impacts of inflation, which has increased at a greater pace than seen in decades, and the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, a high level of estimation was involved in determining the allowance as of March 31, 2022. Actual lease merchandise write-offs may differ materially from the allowance as of March 31, 2022. If the recent increase in inflation continues in future periods, such a development may adversely impact our customers' ability to continue to make payments to the Company. For customer lease agreements that are past due, the Company's policy is to write-off lease merchandise after 120 days. 9 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The following table shows the components of the allowance for lease merchandise write-offs, which is included within lease merchandise, net in the condensed consolidated balance sheets: Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands) 2022 2021 Beginning Balance $ 54,367 $ 45,992 Net Book Value of Merchandise Written off ( 47,134 ) ( 27,954 ) Recoveries 2,384 2,408 Provision for Write-offs 50,330 18,640 Ending Balance $ 59,947 $ 39,086 Vendor Incentives and Rebates Provided to POS Partners Progressive Leasing has agreements with some of its POS partners that require additional consideration to be paid to the POS partner, including payments for exclusivity, rebates based on lease volume originations generated through the POS partners, and payments to the POS partners for marketing or other development initiatives to promote additional lease originations through these POS partners. Payments made to POS partners as consideration for them providing exclusivity to Progressive Leasing for lease-to-own transactions with customers of the POS partner are expensed on a straight-line basis over the exclusivity term. Rebates are accrued over the period the POS partner is earning the rebate, which is typically based on quarterly or annual lease origination volumes. Payments made to POS partners for marketing or development initiatives are expensed on a straight-line basis over the period the POS partner is earning the funds or the specified marketing term. Progressive Leasing expensed $ 6.5 million and $ 4.1 million for such additional consideration to POS partners, during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Expenses related to additional consideration provided to POS partners are classified within operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings. Loans Receivable, Net Gross loans receivable primarily represents the principal balances of credit card charges at Vive's participating merchants that remain due from cardholders, plus unpaid interest and fees due from cardholders. The allowance and unamortized fees represent uncollectible amounts; merchant fee discounts, net of capitalized origination costs; promotional fee discounts; and deferred annual card fees. Loans receivable, net as of March 31, 2022 also includes $ 1.3 million of outstanding receivables from customers of Four. Economic conditions and loan performance trends are closely monitored to manage and evaluate exposure to credit risk. Trends in delinquency rates are an indicator of credit risk within the loans receivable portfolio, including the migration of loans between delinquency categories over time. Charge-off rates represent another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. The risk in the loans receivable portfolio is correlated with broad economic trends, such as current and projected unemployment rates, stock market volatility, and changes in medium and long-term risk-free rates, which are considered in determining the allowance for loan losses and can have a material effect on credit performance. Expected lifetime losses on loans receivable are recognized upon loan acquisition, which requires the Company to make its best estimate of probable lifetime losses at the time of acquisition. Our credit card loans do not have contractually stated maturity dates, which requires the Company to estimate an average life of loan by analyzing historical payment trends to determine an expected remaining life of the loan balance. The Company segments its loans receivable portfolio into homogenous pools by Fair Isaac and Company ("FICO") score and by delinquency status and evaluates loans receivable collectively for impairment when similar risk characteristics exist. 10 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The Company calculates Vive's allowance for loan losses based on internal historical loss information and incorporates observable and forecasted macroeconomic data over a twelve-month reasonable and supportable forecast period. Incorporating macroeconomic data could have a material impact on the measurement of the allowance to the extent that forecasted data changes significantly, such as higher forecasted inflation and unemployment rates, and the observed significant market volatility associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. For any periods beyond the twelve-month reasonable and supportable forecast period described above, the Company reverts to using historical loss information on a straight-line basis over a period of six months and utilizes historical loss information for the remaining life of the portfolio. The Company may also consider other qualitative factors in estimating the allowance, as necessary. For the purposes of determining the allowance as of March 31, 2022, management considered other qualitative factors such as the beneficial impact of government stimulus measures to our customer base that were not fully factored into the macroeconomic forecasted data and also resulted in internal historical loss rates incorporated in Vive's baseline allowance estimate being lower than current forecasted loss rates. We believe those stimulus measures may have contributed to the favorable cardholder payment trends experienced at Vive in 2020 and 2021. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered appropriate to cover expected future losses of principal, interest and fees on active loans in the loans receivable portfolio. The appropriateness of the allowance is evaluated at each period end. If the recent increase in inflation continues in future periods, such a development may adversely impact our customers' ability to continue to make payments to the Company. To the extent that actual results differ from estimates of uncollectible loans receivable, including the significant uncertainties caused by rapidly increasing inflation and the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company's results of operations and liquidity may be materially affected. Vive's delinquent loans receivable includes those that are 30 days or more past due based on their contractual billing dates. Vive's loans receivable are placed on nonaccrual status when they are greater than 90 days past due or upon notification of cardholder bankruptcy, death or fraud. The Company discontinues accruing interest and fees and amortizing merchant fee discounts and promotional fee discounts for Vive's loans receivable in nonaccrual status. Loans receivable are removed from nonaccrual status when cardholder payments resume, the loan becomes 90 days or less past due and collection of the remaining amounts outstanding is deemed probable. Payments received on nonaccrual loans are allocated according to the same payment hierarchy methodology applied to loans that are accruing interest. Loans receivable are charged off no later than the end of the following month after the billing cycle in which the loans receivable become 120 days past due. Vive extends or declines credit to an applicant through its bank partners based upon the applicant's credit rating and other factors. Below is a summary of the credit quality of the Company's loan portfolio as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 by FICO score as determined at the time of loan origination: FICO Score Category March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 600 or Less 8.1 % 7.7 % Between 600 and 700 78.1 % 78.0 % 700 or Greater 12.2 % 12.7 % No Score Identified 1.6 % 1.6 % 11 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets Prepaid expenses and other assets consist of the following: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Prepaid Expenses $ 30,571 $ 28,283 Prepaid Software Expenses 9,929 7,102 Unamortized Initial Direct Costs on Lease Agreement Originations 6,716 5,326 Prepaid Insurance 4,172 40 Other Assets 6,860 7,446 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets $ 58,248 $ 48,197 The Company incurs costs to implement cloud computing arrangements ("CCA") that are hosted by third-party vendors. Implementation costs associated with CCA are capitalized when incurred during the application development phase and are recorded within prepaid software expenses above. Amortization is calculated on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the arrangement and is included within computer software expense as a component of operating expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of earnings. Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Accounts Payable $ 14,466 $ 13,741 Accrued Salaries and Benefits 19,504 25,861 Accrued Sales and Personal Property Taxes 13,513 14,851 Income Taxes Payable 3,608 2,782 Uncertain Tax Positions 1 50,019 48,451 Other Accrued Expenses and Liabilities 33,052 30,268 Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses $ 134,162 $ 135,954 1 The uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 are primarily related to the Companys tax treatment of the $ 175.0 million settlement payment made in 2020 to the FTC as discussed in Note 10 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2021 Annual Report. Debt On November 24, 2020, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a consortium of lenders providing for a $ 350.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility"), under which revolving borrowings became available at the completion of the separation and distribution transaction through which the Company's historical Aaron's Business segment was spun-off into a separate company, and under which all borrowings and commitments will mature or terminate on November 24, 2025. The Company expects that the Revolving Facility will be used to provide for working capital and capital expenditures, to finance future permitted acquisitions, and for other general corporate purposes. The Company had no outstanding borrowings and $ 350.0 million total available credit under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. On November 26, 2021, the Company entered into an indenture in connection with an offering of $ 600 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.00 % senior unsecured notes due 2029 (the "Senior Notes"). The Senior Notes were issued at 100 % of their par value. The Senior Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed by certain of the Companys existing and future domestic subsidiaries. The net proceeds from the Senior Notes were used to fund the purchase price, and related fees and expenses, of the Companys tender offer to purchase $ 425 million of the Companys common stock as discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2021 Annual Report. The Company intends to use any remaining proceeds for future share repurchases or, to the extent the Company determines not to repurchase additional shares, for general corporate purposes. At March 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with all covenants related to its outstanding debt. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in the 2021 Annual Report for further information regarding the Company's indebtedness. 12 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the identifiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with business acquisitions. Progressive Leasing and Four are the only reporting units with goodwill as of March 31, 2022. Impairment occurs when the carrying amount of goodwill is not recoverable from future cash flows. The Companys goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test at the reporting unit level annually as of October 1 and more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Factors which could necessitate an interim impairment assessment include a sustained decline in the Companys stock price, prolonged negative industry or economic trends and significant underperformance relative to historical results, projected future operating results, or the Company failing to successfully execute on one or more elements of Progressive Leasing and/or Four's strategic plans. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment test for Progressive Leasing and Four as of October 1, 2021 and concluded that no impairment had occurred. The Company determined that there were no events or circumstances that occurred during the three months ended March 31, 2022 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of Progressive Leasing or Four below their carrying amounts. 13 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Shareholders' Equity Changes in shareholders' equity for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows: Treasury Stock Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Total Shareholders Equity (In Thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Balance, December 31, 2021 ( 25,638 ) $ ( 749,401 ) 82,079 $ 41,039 $ 332,244 $ 1,055,526 $ 679,408 Stock-Based Compensation 6,587 6,587 Reissued Shares 177 5,260 ( 7,776 ) ( 2,516 ) Repurchased Shares ( 2,200 ) ( 78,080 ) ( 78,080 ) Net Earnings 27,135 27,135 Balance, March 31, 2022 ( 27,661 ) $ ( 822,221 ) 82,079 $ 41,039 $ 331,055 $ 1,082,661 $ 632,534 Treasury Stock Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Total Shareholders Equity (In Thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Balance, December 31, 2020 ( 23,029 ) $ ( 613,881 ) 90,752 $ 45,376 $ 318,263 $ 1,236,378 $ 986,136 Stock-Based Compensation 4,163 4,163 Reissued Shares 216 3,671 ( 8,400 ) ( 4,729 ) Repurchased Shares ( 589 ) ( 28,102 ) ( 28,102 ) Net Earnings 79,488 79,488 Balance, March 31, 2021 ( 23,402 ) $ ( 638,312 ) 90,752 $ 45,376 $ 314,026 $ 1,315,866 $ 1,036,956 14 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Stock-Based Compensation During the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company issued 371,817 restricted stock units and 264,132 stock options to certain employees, and 349,053 performance share units to certain employees and third-parties, which vest over one to three-year periods for certain units and upon the achievement of specified performance conditions for other units. The weighted average fair value of the restricted stock and performance share awards was $ 29.16 , which was based on the fair market value of the Companys common stock on the date of grants. The weighted average fair value of the stock option awards was $ 10.89 , which was based on a grant date value using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. The Company will recognize the grant date fair value of the restricted stock units and stock options as stock-based compensation expense over the requisite service period of one to three years . The Company will recognize the grant date fair value of the performance units as stock-based compensation expense over the estimated vesting period based on the Company's projected assessment of the performance conditions that are probable of being achieved in accordance with ASC 718, Stock-based Compensation . Fair Value Measurement Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting the Company's own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. The Company measures a liability related to its non-qualified deferred compensation plan, which represents benefits accrued for plan participants and is valued at the quoted market prices of the participants' investment election, at fair value on a recurring basis. The Company maintains certain financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value but for which fair value is disclosed. The fair values of the Company's other current financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate their carrying values due to their short-term nature. The fair value of any revolving credit borrowings also approximate their carrying amounts. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Pending Adoption In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform: Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting (Topic 848) ("ASU 2020-04"). The standard provides temporary guidance to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform primarily resulting from the discontinuation of the London Interbank Overnight ("LIBO") rate or another reference rate expected to be discontinued. Entities may apply the provisions of the new standard as of the beginning of the reporting period when the election is made. The provisions of this update are only available until December 31, 2022, when the reference rate replacement activity is expected to have completed. The Company's Revolving Facility currently references the LIBO rate for determining interest payable on outstanding borrowings. The amendments in ASU 2020-04 are elective and apply to all entities that have contracts referencing the LIBO rate. The new guidance provides an expedient which simplifies accounting analyses under current U.S. GAAP for contract modifications if the change is directly related to a change from the LIBO rate to a new interest rate index. The Company plans to amend the Revolving Facility agreement during 2022 to change the reference rate from LIBO to a new interest rate index. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2020-04 to have a material impact to the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements or to any key terms of our Revolving Facility other than the discontinuation of the LIBO rate. 15 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) NOTE 2. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table summarizes financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Deferred Compensation Liability $ $ 2,307 $ $ $ 2,423 $ The Company maintains the PROG Holdings, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, which is an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan for a select group of management, highly compensated employees and non-employee directors. The liability is recorded in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The liability represents benefits accrued for plan participants and is valued at the quoted market prices of the participants investment elections, which consist of equity and debt "mirror" funds. As such, the Company has classified the deferred compensation liability as a Level 2 liability. Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value for Which Fair Value is Disclosed Vive's loans receivable are measured at amortized cost, net of an allowance for loan losses on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. In estimating fair value for Vive's loans receivable, the Company utilized a discounted cash flow methodology. The Company used various unobservable inputs reflecting its own assumptions, such as contractual future principal and interest cash flows, future loss rates, and discount rates (which consider current interest rates and are adjusted for credit risk, among other factors). Four's loans receivable, net of an allowance for loan losses and unamortized fees, are included within loans receivable, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2022 and approximated fair value based on a discounted cash flow methodology. The Company's Senior Notes are carried at amortized cost on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and are measured at fair value for disclosure purposes. The fair value of the Senior Notes was derived from private quoted prices and has been classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The following table summarizes the fair value of the Company's debt and loans receivable held by Vive and Four: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Senior Notes $ $ 555,000 $ $ $ 616,080 $ Loans Receivable, Net $ $ $ 154,835 $ $ $ 157,070 16 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) NOTE 3. LOANS RECEIVABLE The following is a summary of the Companys loans receivable, net: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Loans Receivable, Gross $ 169,145 $ 172,615 Unamortized Fees ( 12,007 ) ( 12,511 ) Loans Receivable, Amortized Cost 157,138 160,104 Allowance for Loan Losses ( 40,279 ) ( 40,789 ) Loans Receivable, Net of Allowances and Unamortized Fees 1 $ 116,859 $ 119,315 1 Loans Receivable, Net of Allowances and Unamortized Fees attributable to Four was $ 1.3 million and $ 1.5 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The table below presents credit quality indicators of the amortized cost of the Company's loans receivable by origination year: (In Thousands) As of March 31, 2022 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 Prior Total FICO Score Category: 600 or Less $ 2,905 $ 7,387 $ 1,964 $ 505 $ 163 $ 50 $ 12,974 Between 600 and 700 23,409 68,498 20,702 5,771 1,795 2,608 122,783 700 or Greater 4,617 10,242 2,497 560 310 518 18,744 No Score Identified 2,637 2,637 Total Amortized Cost $ 33,568 $ 86,127 $ 25,163 $ 6,836 $ 2,268 $ 3,176 $ 157,138 Included in the table below is an aging of the loans receivable, gross balance: (Dollar Amounts in Thousands) Aging Category March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 30-59 Days Past Due 5.9 % 6.3 % 60-89 Days Past Due 3.0 % 3.1 % 90 or More Days Past Due 4.3 % 4.0 % Past Due Loans Receivable 13.2 % 13.4 % Current Loans Receivable 86.8 % 86.6 % Balance of Credit Card Loans on Nonaccrual Status 3,407 3,527 Balance of Loans Receivable 90 or More Days Past Due and Still Accruing Interest and Fees $ $ The table below presents the components of the allowance for loan losses for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands) 2022 2021 Beginning Balance $ 40,789 $ 42,127 Provision for Loan Losses 7,682 6,468 Charge-offs ( 9,388 ) ( 4,883 ) Recoveries 1,196 944 Ending Balance $ 40,279 $ 44,656 17 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) NOTE 4. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Legal and Regulatory Proceedings From time to time, the Company is party to various legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of the proceedings to which the Company is currently a party are described below. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to all of the claims described below, and intends to vigorously defend against the claims. However, these proceedings are still developing and due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation, regulatory and similar adversarial proceedings, there can be no guarantee that the Company will ultimately be successful in these proceedings, or in others to which it is currently a party. Substantial losses from these proceedings or the costs of defending them could have a material adverse impact upon the Companys business, financial position and results of operations. The Company establishes an accrued liability for legal and regulatory proceedings when it determines that a loss is both probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company continually monitors its litigation and regulatory exposure and reviews the adequacy of its legal and regulatory reserves on a quarterly basis. The amount of any loss ultimately incurred in relation to matters for which an accrual has been established may be higher or lower than the amounts accrued for such matters. At March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the Company had accrued an immaterial amount for pending legal and regulatory matters for which it believes losses are probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company records its best estimate of the loss to legal and regulatory liabilities in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company estimates that the aggregate range of reasonably possible loss in excess of accrued liabilities for such probable loss contingencies is immaterial. Those matters for which a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated are not included within the estimated ranges. At March 31, 2022, the Company estimated that the aggregate range of loss for all material pending legal and regulatory proceedings for which a loss is reasonably possible, but less likely than probable (i.e., excluding the contingencies described in the preceding paragraph), is immaterial. Those matters for which a reasonable estimate is not possible are not included within estimated ranges and, therefore, the estimated ranges do not represent the Company's maximum loss exposure. The Companys estimates for legal and regulatory accruals, aggregate probable loss amounts and reasonably possible loss amounts, are all subject to the uncertainties and variables described above. Regulatory Inquiries In January 2021, the Company, along with other lease-to-own companies, received a subpoena from the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation (the "DFPI") requesting the production of documents regarding the Companys compliance with state consumer protection laws, including new legislation that went into effect on January 1, 2021. Although the Company believes it is in compliance with all applicable consumer financial laws and regulations in California, this inquiry may lead to an enforcement action and/or a consent order, and substantial costs, including legal fees, fines, penalties, and remediation expenses. While the Company intends to preserve defenses surrounding the jurisdiction of DFPI in this matter, it anticipates cooperating with the DFPI in responding to its inquiry. Litigation Matters In Stein v. Aaron's, Inc., et. al., filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on February 28, 2020, the plaintiffs allege that from March 2, 2018 through February 19, 2020, the Company made certain misleading public statements about the Company's business, operations, and prospects. The allegations underlying the lawsuit principally relate to the FTC's inquiry into disclosures related to lease-to-own and other financial products offered by the Company through its historical Aaron's Business and Progressive Leasing segments. The Company believes the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend against this lawsuit. The case has been transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, where the Company has filed a motion to dismiss the case and a final briefing on that motion was filed on November 17, 2020. No ruling has been made on the motion to dismiss. Other Contingencies Management regularly assesses the Companys insurance deductibles, monitors the Company's litigation and regulatory exposure with the Company's attorneys and evaluates its loss experience. The Company also enters into various contracts in the normal course of business that may subject it to risk of financial loss if counterparties fail to perform their contractual obligations. 18 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Off-Balance Sheet Risk The Company, through its Vive segment, has unconditionally cancellable unfunded lending commitments totaling approximately $ 499.0 million and $ 467.6 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, that do not give rise to revenues and cash flows. These unfunded commitments arise in the ordinary course of business from credit card agreements with individual cardholders that give them the ability to borrow, against unused amounts, up to the maximum credit limit assigned to their account. While these unfunded amounts represent the total available unused lines of credit, the Company does not anticipate that all cardholders will utilize their entire available line at any given point in time. Commitments to extend unsecured credit are agreements to lend to a cardholder so long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. NOTE 5. SEGMENTS As of March 31, 2022, the Company has two reportable segments: Progressive Leasing and Vive. Progressive Leasing partners with traditional and e-commerce retailers, primarily in the furniture and appliance, jewelry, mobile phones and accessories, mattresses, and automobile electronics and accessories industries to offer a lease-purchase solution for customers who may not have access to traditional credit-based financing options. It does so by offering leases with monthly, semi-monthly, bi-weekly and weekly payment models. Vive offers a variety of second-look financing programs originated through third-party federally insured banks to customers of participating merchants and, together with Progressive Leasing, allows the Company to provide POS partners with near-prime and below-prime customers one source for financing and leasing transactions. As discussed in Note 1 of the 2021 Annual Report, on June 25, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Four, an innovative Buy Now, Pay Later company that allows shoppers to pay for merchandise through four interest-free installments. Four is not a reportable segment for the three months ended March 31, 2022 as its revenues, loss before income taxes, and assets are not material to the Company's condensed consolidated financial results. The revenues, loss before income taxes, and assets within "other" below is primarily comprised of the operating activities of Four. Disaggregated Revenue The following table presents revenue by source and by segment for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (In Thousands) Progressive Leasing Vive Other Total Progressive Leasing Vive Other Total Lease Revenues and Fees 1 $ 692,914 $ $ $ 692,914 $ 707,982 $ $ $ 707,982 Interest and Fees on Loans Receivable 2 17,116 434 17,550 13,019 13,019 Total $ 692,914 $ 17,116 $ 434 $ 710,464 $ 707,982 $ 13,019 $ $ 721,001 1 Revenue within the scope of ASC 842, Leases . 2 Revenue within the scope of ASC 310, Receivables . 19 PROG HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Measurement of Segment Profit or Loss and Segment Assets The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on revenues and earnings (loss) before income taxes from operations. The Company determines earnings (loss) before income tax expense for all reportable segments in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A portion of interest expense is allocated from the Progressive Leasing segment to the Vive segment based on the balance of outstanding intercompany debt. The Company incurred various corporate overhead expenses for certain executive management, finance, treasury, tax, audit, legal, risk management, and other overhead functions during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. Corporate overhead expenses incurred are primarily reflected as expenses of the Progressive Leasing segment and an immaterial amount was allocated to the Vive segment. The allocation of corporate overhead costs to the Progressive Leasing and Vive segments is consistent with how the chief operating decision maker analyzed performance and allocated resources among the segments of the Company during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. The following is a summary of earnings before income tax expense by segment: Three Months Ended March 31, (In Thousands) 2022 2021 Earnings Before Income Tax Expense: Progressive Leasing $ 42,081 $ 104,172 Vive 4,423 1,424 Other ( 6,668 ) Total Earnings Before Income Tax Expense $ 39,836 $ 105,596 The following is a summary of total assets by segment: (In Thousands) March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Assets: Progressive Leasing $ 1,399,155 $ 1,445,612 Vive 146,227 149,628 Other 27,339 26,521 Total Assets $ 1,572,721 $ 1,621,761 20 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information: Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on managements current expectations and plans, which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "would," "should," and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report and which involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. These risks and uncertainties include factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (the "2021 Annual Report"). Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances after the filing date of this Quarterly Report. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, including the notes to those statements, appearing elsewhere in this report. We also suggest that managements discussion and analysis appearing in this report be read in conjunction with the managements discussion and analysis and consolidated financial statements included in our 2021 Annual Report. Business Overview PROG Holdings, Inc. ("we," "our," "us," the "Company," or "PROG Holdings") is a financial technology holding company that provides leading financial solutions to empower consumers and retailers. PROG Holdings has two reportable segments: (i) Progressive Leasing, an e-commerce, app-based, and in-store point-of-sale solutions provider; and (ii) Vive Financial ("Vive"), an omnichannel provider of second-look revolving credit products. Our Progressive Leasing segment provides consumers with lease-purchase solutions through its point-of-sale partner locations and e-commerce website partners in the United States (collectively, "POS partners") in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It does so by purchasing the merchandise from the POS partners desired by customers and, in turn, leasing that merchandise to the customers through a cancellable lease-to-own transaction. Progressive Leasing has no stores of its own, but rather offers lease-purchase solutions to the customers of traditional and e-commerce retailers. Our Vive segment primarily serves customers that may not qualify for traditional prime lending offers who desire to purchase goods and services from participating merchants. Vive offers customized programs with services that include revolving loans through private label and Vive-branded credit cards. Vive's current network of POS partner locations and e-commerce websites includes furniture, mattresses, home exercise equipment, and home improvement retailers, as well as medical and dental service providers. On June 25, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Four Technologies, Inc. ("Four"), an innovative Buy Now, Pay Later company that allows shoppers to pay for merchandise through four interest-free installments. Fours proprietary platform capabilities and its base of customers and retailers expand PROG Holdings ecosystem of financial technology offerings by introducing a payment solution that further diversifies the Company's consumer fintech offerings. Shoppers use Four to purchase furniture, clothing, electronics, health and beauty products, footwear, jewelry, and other consumer goods from retailers across the United States. Four is not expected to be a reportable segment in 2022 as its revenues, loss before income taxes, and assets are not expected to be material to the Company's consolidated financial results in 2022. 21 COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. Since then, the COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and increased unemployment levels. Although the temporary showroom and/or store closures or reduced hours and scope of operations that many of our POS partners experienced during portions of 2020 and 2021 generally have eased, the significant increase in COVID-19 cases from the Omicron variant during the first quarter of 2022 resulted in many of our POS partners temporarily resuming such measures during the first half of the quarter. In addition, other pandemic-related factors continue to unfavorably impact many of our POS partners, including supply chain disruptions resulting in shortages of available products at certain POS partners, primarily in the appliance, electronics and furniture categories. These pandemic-related developments may have an unfavorable impact on Progressive Leasings generation of new lease agreements and Vive's generation of new loans and revenues in future periods. During the first quarter of 2022, we experienced an unfavorable impact to our Gross Merchandise Volume ("GMV") primarily due to the significant increase in COVID-19 infections caused by the Omicron variant, resulting in our POS partners taking the steps described above, as well as significant increases in employee absenteeism, and a decline in customer traffic and supply chain disruptions for many of our POS partners. The COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or cash flow in future periods. The extent of any such adverse impacts will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including (i) the length and severity of the pandemic, including, for example, the emergence of contagious and harmful variants of COVID-19 and localized outbreaks or additional waves of COVID-19 cases; (ii) the impact of any such outbreaks on our customers, POS partners, and employees; (iii) the nature of any government orders issued in response to such outbreaks, and/or self-imposed restrictions on operations being implemented by our POS partners; (iv) the effectiveness, availability and level of use of vaccines; and (v) whether there is any additional government stimulus in response to the pandemic, as well as the nature, timing and amount of such stimulus payments. In response to COVID-19, the United States government enacted certain fiscal stimulus measures in several phases to assist in counteracting the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") was signed into law. A second round of stimulus benefits was enacted and paid in December 2020. On March 11, 2021, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 was signed into law, providing a third round of stimulus payments to individuals and extending supplemental unemployment assistance through September 6, 2021, while exempting the first $10,200 of unemployment benefits from income tax. We believe all of those government stimulus measures provided economic support to many of our customers, resulting in an increase in payment activity and early lease buyouts, as well as lease merchandise, accounts receivable, and loan receivable write-offs trending lower during 2020 and the first half of 2021. We believe a significant portion of our Progressive Leasing and Vive customers received stimulus payments and/or federally supplemented unemployment payments during 2020 and the first half of 2021, which enabled them to continue making payments to us under their lease-to-own or credit card agreements, despite the economically challenging times resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Customer payment delinquencies and uncollectible renewal payments experienced within our Progressive Leasing segment during the first quarter of 2022 were higher than levels experienced in recent pre-pandemic periods. Customer payment delinquencies within our Vive segment were unfavorable during the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the first quarter of 2021, but still more favorable than typical pre-pandemic delinquency levels. We cannot be certain that our customers will continue making their payments to the Company at current levels. We may continue to experience customer payment delinquencies and associated write-offs at levels higher than typical pre-pandemic levels due to the expiration of the government stimulus payments and enhanced unemployment benefits and child tax credits that were implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, other adverse economic impacts arising out of the pandemic, and/or the rate of increase in inflation in recent months to levels not seen in decades. Those and other factors may adversely impact our customers' ability to make payments owed to the Company, and may have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance. 22 Highlights The following summarizes significant financial highlights from the three months ended March 31, 2022: We reported revenues of $710.5 million, a decrease of 1.5% compared to the first quarter of 2021. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to an increase in customer payment delinquencies and uncollectible renewal payments, as well as a decrease in customers exercising early lease buyout options, as compared to the stronger customer payment activity and historically low delinquencies we experienced during the first quarter of 2021. GMV decreased in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the same period in the prior year, resulting from the unfavorable impact that the significant increase in COVID-19 cases driven by the Omicron variant had on our POS partners in the first half of the quarter, partially offset by increased penetration in e-commerce. In the first quarter of 2022, GMV generated through e-commerce platforms represented 15.9% of Progressive Leasing's total GMV, compared to 14.3% in the first quarter of 2021. Earnings before income taxes decreased to $39.8 million compared to $105.6 million in the same period in 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by an increase of $31.7 million in the provision for lease merchandise write-offs, as a result of higher customer payment delinquencies and write-offs, as compared to the strong customer payment activity and historically low lease merchandise charge-offs we experienced during the first quarter of 2021. The decrease was also driven by a $22.5 million increase in operating expenses, as compared to the first quarter of 2021, and an additional $9.1 million of interest expense related to the Senior Notes issued in November 2021. Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume . We believe GMV is a key performance indicator of our Progressive Leasing and Vive segments, as it provides the total value of new lease and loan originations written into our portfolio over a specified time period. GMV does not represent revenues earned by the Company, but rather is a leading indicator we use in forecasting revenues the Company may earn in the short-term. Progressive Leasing's GMV is defined as the retail price of merchandise acquired by Progressive Leasing, which it then expects to lease to its customers. Vive GMV is defined as gross loan originations. The following table presents our GMV for the Company for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Unaudited and In Thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Progressive Leasing $ 504,462 $ 510,046 $ (5,584) (1.1) % Vive 42,614 55,898 (13,284) (23.8) Other 7,086 7,086 nmf Total GMV $ 554,162 $ 565,944 $ (11,782) (2.1) % nmfCalculation is not meaningful We believe the decrease in Progressive Leasing and Vive GMV was primarily driven by supply chain disruptions, store closures and reduced consumer traffic for our POS partners in the first quarter of 2022, primarily as a result of the significant increase in COVID-19 cases caused by the Omicron variant during the first half of the quarter, and also by the expiration of government stimulus payments and enhanced unemployment benefits in the second half of 2021 that existed in the first quarter of 2021. The decrease in Progressive Leasing's GMV from those factors was partially offset by continued growth from e-commerce channels. E-commerce channels generated 15.9% of Progressive Leasing's GMV in the first quarter of 2022 compared to 14.3% in the first quarter of 2021. 23 Active Customer Count. Our active customer count represents the total number of customers that have an active lease agreement with our Progressive Leasing segment or an active loan with our Vive segment. The following table presents our consolidated active customer count, which includes an immaterial number of customers that have both an active lease agreement and loan agreement, for the Company for the periods presented: As of March 31 (Unaudited) 2022 2021 Active Customer Count: Progressive Leasing 974,000 878,000 Vive 88,000 74,000 Other 17,000 Total Active Customer Count 1,079,000 952,000 The increase in the number of Progressive Leasing customers was primarily due to a large number of customers electing to exercise early lease buyouts in the first quarter of 2021, which reduced our active customer count for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in the number of Vive customers was primarily driven by strong GMV growth in 2021. Key Components of Earnings Before Income Taxes In this MD&A section, we review our condensed consolidated results. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and the comparable prior year period, some of the key revenue, cost and expense items that affected earnings before income taxes were as follows: Revenues . We separate our total revenues into two components: (i) lease revenues and fees and (ii) interest and fees on loans receivable. Lease revenues and fees include all revenues derived from lease agreements from our Progressive Leasing segment. Lease revenues are recorded net of a provision for uncollectible renewal payments. Interest and fees on loans receivable represents merchant fees, finance charges and annual and other fees earned on outstanding loans in our Vive segment and, to a lesser extent, from Four. Depreciation of Lease Merchandise . Depreciation of lease merchandise primarily reflects the expense associated with depreciating merchandise leased to customers by Progressive Leasing. Provision for Lease Merchandise Write-offs. The provision for lease merchandise write-offs represents the estimated merchandise losses incurred but not yet identified by management and adjustments for changes in estimates for the allowance for lease merchandise write-offs. Operating Expenses . Operating expenses include personnel costs, stock-based compensation expense, occupancy costs, advertising, professional services expense, sales acquisition expense, computer software expense, the provision for loan losses, fixed asset depreciation expense, and intangible asset amortization, among other expenses. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest incurred on the Company's senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility") and on the Company's Senior Notes. 24 Results of Operations Three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Three Months Ended March 31, Change (In Thousands) 2022 2021 $ % REVENUES: Lease Revenues and Fees $ 692,914 $ 707,982 $ (15,068) (2.1) % Interest and Fees on Loans Receivable 17,550 13,019 4,531 34.8 710,464 721,001 (10,537) (1.5) COSTS AND EXPENSES: Depreciation of Lease Merchandise 497,011 505,057 (8,046) (1.6) Provision for Lease Merchandise Write-Offs 50,330 18,640 31,690 170.0 Operating Expenses 113,658 91,196 22,462 24.6 660,999 614,893 46,106 7.5 OPERATING PROFIT 49,465 106,108 (56,643) (53.4) Interest Expense (9,629) (512) (9,117) nmf EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 39,836 105,596 (65,760) (62.3) INCOME TAX EXPENSE 12,701 26,108 (13,407) (51.4) NET EARNINGS $ 27,135 $ 79,488 $ (52,353) (65.9) % nmfCalculation is not meaningful Revenues Information about our revenues by source and reportable segment is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (In Thousands) Progressive Leasing Vive Other Total Progressive Leasing Vive Other Total Lease Revenues and Fees $ 692,914 $ $ $ 692,914 $ 707,982 $ $ $ 707,982 Interest and Fees on Loans Receivable 17,116 434 17,550 13,019 13,019 Total $ 692,914 $ 17,116 $ 434 $ 710,464 $ 707,982 $ 13,019 $ $ 721,001 The decrease in Progressive Leasing revenues was primarily due to an increase in customer payment delinquencies and uncollectible renewal payments for Progressive Leasing, as compared to the strong customer payment activity and historically low delinquencies it experienced during the first quarter of 2021. The provision for uncollectible renewal payments, which is recorded as a reduction to lease revenues and fees, was $88.5 million in the first quarter of 2022 compared to $36.5 million in the first quarter of 2021. Lease revenues and fees was also lower as a result of fewer customers electing to exercise early lease buyouts in the first quarter of 2022, as compared to the first quarter of 2021, and a 1.1% decrease in GMV. We believe the decrease in early lease buyouts was primarily the result of the expiration of the government stimulus and enhanced unemployment benefits that existed in the first quarter of 2021. These declines were partially offset by growth in the lease portfolio and an increase in GMV generated through e-commerce platforms, which represented 15.9% of total Progressive Leasing GMV in the first quarter of 2022, compared to 14.3% in the first quarter of 2021. The increase in Vive revenues was primarily due to higher loans receivable driven by strong GMV growth in 2021. 25 Operating Expenses Information about certain significant components of operating expenses for the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the first quarter of 2021 is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (In Thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Personnel Costs 1 $ 53,585 $ 44,217 $ 9,368 21.2 % Stock-Based Compensation 6,623 4,163 2,460 59.1 Occupancy Costs 1,604 1,382 222 16.1 Advertising 4,504 2,920 1,584 54.2 Professional Services 5,440 4,347 1,093 25.1 Sales Acquisition Expense 2 5,834 4,902 932 19.0 Computer Software Expense 3 6,596 4,110 2,486 60.5 Other Sales, General and Administrative Expense 13,308 10,867 2,441 22.5 Sales, General and Administrative Expense 4 97,494 76,908 20,586 26.8 Provision for Loan Losses 7,682 6,468 1,214 18.8 Depreciation and Amortization 8,482 7,820 662 8.5 Operating Expenses $ 113,658 $ 91,196 $ 22,462 24.6 % 1 Personnel costs excludes stock-based compensation expense, which is reported separately in the operating expense table. 2 Sales acquisition expense includes vendor incentives and rebates to POS partners, external sales commissions, amortization of initial direct costs and amounts paid to various POS partners to be their exclusive provider of lease-to-own solutions. 3 Computer software expense consists primarily of software subscription fees, licensing fees and non-capitalizable software implementation costs. 4 Progressive Leasing's sales, general and administrative expense was $85.9 million and $72.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in personnel costs of $9.4 million was driven by an increase of $7.4 million and $0.5 million at Progressive Leasing and Vive, respectively, resulting from wage increases and promotions, as well as additional hiring to support our growth in the business. An additional $1.5 million in personnel costs was attributable to the acquisition and growth of Four, and other strategic initiatives started by the Company in 2021. Stock-based compensation increased $2.5 million as a result of awards granted to personnel hired to support our growth and new business initiatives. Advertising expenses increased $1.6 million primarily due to Progressive Leasing's efforts to continue growing GMV from existing POS partners and to further expand into e-commerce, combined with reduced marketing efforts in the first quarter of 2021 due to cost cutting measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Computer software expense increased $2.5 million compared to the prior year quarter primarily due to an increase in non-capitalizable software project costs at Progressive Leasing and for new strategic initiatives started by the Company in 2021, and increased software licensing costs related to the growth of the Company. Other Costs and Expenses Depreciation of lease merchandise. Depreciation of lease merchandise decreased by 1.6% due to the large number of customers exercising 90-day and other early lease buyout elections in the first quarter of 2021. As a percentage of total lease revenues and fees, depreciation of lease merchandise increased to 71.7% from 71.3% in the prior year quarter, primarily due to an increase in uncollectible renewal payments in the first quarter of 2022 compared to 2021. Provision for lease merchandise write-offs . The provision for lease merchandise write-offs increased $31.7 million due to higher customer payment delinquencies and write-offs in the first quarter of 2022, compared to the strong customer payment activity and historically low lease merchandise write-offs we experienced during the first quarter of 2021. Given the significant economic uncertainty resulting from the rate of the increase in inflation experienced in recent months, and the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including for example, possible spikes in COVID-19 cases due to the Omicron BA.2 subvariant or other new variants or subvariants, and the potential effects of such developments on our customers and business going forward, a high level of estimation was involved in determining the allowance as of March 31, 2022. Actual lease merchandise write-offs could differ materially from the allowance. 26 The provision for lease merchandise write-offs as a percentage of lease revenues increased to 7.3% in the first quarter of 2022 from 2.6% in the same period in 2021, as a result of higher customer payment delinquencies and write-offs in 2022 as compared to the strong customer payment activity and historically low lease merchandise write-offs we experienced in 2021. Earnings Before Income Tax Expense Information about our earnings before income tax expense by reportable segment is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (In Thousands) 2022 2021 $ % EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE: Progressive Leasing $ 42,081 $ 104,172 $ (62,091) (59.6) % Vive 4,423 1,424 2,999 210.6 Other (6,668) (6,668) nmf Total Earnings Before Income Tax Expense $ 39,836 $ 105,596 $ (65,760) (62.3) % nmfCalculation is not meaningful The $6.7 million loss before income tax expense within "Other" primarily relates to our Four operations. Factors impacting the change in earnings before income taxes are discussed above. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense decreased to $12.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $26.1 million in the prior year comparable period due to lower earnings before income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 31.9% compared to the effective tax rate of 24.7% for the same period in the prior year. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by discrete income tax expense related to the Company's uncertain tax position liabilities and the employee stock-based compensation vesting event that occurred in the first quarter of 2022. 27 Overview of Financial Position The major changes in the condensed consolidated balance sheet from December 31, 2021 to March 31, 2022 include: Cash and cash equivalents increased $13.9 million to $184.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. For additional information, refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below. Lease merchandise, net of accumulated depreciation and allowances, decreased $68.8 million due primarily to a decrease in GMV of 18.9% from the fourth quarter of 2021. Loans receivable, net of allowances and unamortized fees, decreased $2.5 million due to a decrease in loan originations with Vive's POS partners. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased $10.1 million due primarily to an increase in prepaid software of $2.8 million and prepaid insurance of $4.1 million. 28 Liquidity and Capital Resources General We expect that our primary capital requirements will consist of: Reinvesting in our business, including buying merchandise for the operations of Progressive Leasing. Because we believe Progressive Leasing will continue to grow, we expect that the need for additional lease merchandise will remain a major capital requirement; Making merger and acquisition investment(s) to further broaden our product offerings; and Returning excess cash to shareholders through periodically repurchasing stock. Other capital requirements include (i) expenditures related to software development; (ii) expenditures related to our corporate operating activities; (iii) personnel expenditures; (iv) income tax payments; (v) funding of loans receivable for Vive; and (vi) servicing our outstanding debt obligation. Our capital requirements have been financed through: cash flows from operations; private debt offerings; bank debt; and stock offerings. As of March 31, 2022, the Company had $184.0 million of cash, $350.0 million of availability under the Revolving Facility, and $600.0 million of indebtedness. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $98.3 million and $167.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The $68.8 million decrease in operating cash flows was driven by a reduction in customer payment activity compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to lower customer delinquencies and a large number of customers exercising early lease buyout options in the first quarter of 2021 as compared to 2022, resulting in a $65.5 million decrease in cash provided by the change in accounts receivable compared to the prior year period. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities is also a result of changes in certain working capital accounts, including, a decrease of $10.7 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses. The change was partially offset by a $10.6 million decrease in purchases of lease merchandise by Progressive Leasing during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. Other changes in cash provided by operating activities are discussed above in our discussion of results for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $5.6 million and $19.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The $14.1 million decrease in investing cash outflows in the first quarter of 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021 was primarily due to a $6.4 million decrease in cash outflows for investments in loans receivables due to a 23.8% decrease in Vive GMV compared to the first quarter of 2021. Additionally, proceeds from loans receivable increased $8.2 million, which was driven by Vive's loan portfolio growth during 2021. Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $78.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $32.8 million during the same period in 2021. Cash used in financing activities in the first quarter of 2022 was primarily used for the Company's repurchase of its common stock totaling $78.1 million compared to $28.1 million in the same period in prior year. Share Repurchases We purchase our stock in the market from time to time as authorized by our Board of Directors. On November 3, 2021, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program that replaced the previous $300 million repurchase program. The Company repurchased 2,200,381 shares for $78.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2022, we had the authority to purchase additional shares up to our remaining authorization limit of $482.8 million. 29 As of April 26, 2022, we repurchased an additional 524,540 shares of common stock for $14.7 million subsequent to March 31, 2022. Debt Financing On November 24, 2020, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a consortium of lenders providing for a $350.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, under which revolving borrowings became available on the date of the completion of the separation and distribution transaction pursuant to which our former Aaron's Business segment was spun-off into a separate publicly-traded company, and under which all borrowings and commitments will mature or terminate on November 24, 2025. As of March 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding balance and $350.0 million remaining available for borrowings on the Revolving Facility. The Revolving Facility includes an uncommitted incremental facility increase option ("Incremental Facilities") which, subject to certain terms and conditions, permits the Company at any time prior to the maturity date to request an increase in extensions of credit available thereunder by an aggregate additional principal amount of up to $300.0 million. Our Revolving Facility contains certain financial covenants, which include requirements that the Company maintain ratios of (i) total net debt to EBITDA of no more than 2.50:1.00 and (ii) consolidated interest coverage of no less than 3.00:1.00. The Company will be in default under the Revolving Facility if it fails to comply with these covenants, and all borrowings outstanding may become due immediately. Additionally, under the Revolving Facility, if the total net debt to EBITDA, as defined by the Revolving Facility, exceeds 1.25, the revolver becomes fully secured for the remaining duration of the Revolving Facility term. The Revolving Facility is unsecured as of March 31, 2022. At March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the Revolving Facility and believe that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. On November 26, 2021, the Company entered into an indenture in connection with its offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes due 2029. The Senior Notes were issued at 100.0% of their par value with a stated fixed annual interest rate of 6.00%. Interest accrues on the outstanding balance and is payable semi-annually. The Senior Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing and future domestic subsidiaries. The indenture discussed above contains various other covenants and obligations to which the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to while the Senior Notes are outstanding. The covenants in the indenture may limit the extent to which, or the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things: (i) incur additional debt and guarantee debt; (ii) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; (iii) prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; (iv) issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; (v) make loans and investments; (vi) sell assets; (vii) incur liens; (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (ix) enter into agreements restricting the ability of the Companys subsidiaries to pay dividends; and (x) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of the Companys assets. The indenture also contains customary events of default for transactions of this type and amount. We were in compliance with these covenants at March 31, 2022 and believe that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. Commitments Income Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2022, we made net tax payments of $4.2 million. Within the next nine months, we anticipate making estimated tax payments of $31.8 million for United States federal income taxes and state income taxes. Deferred income tax liabilities as of March 31, 2022 were $152.4 million . Deferred income tax liabilities are calculated based on temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their respective book basis, which will result in taxable amounts in future years when the liabilities are settled at their reported financial statement amounts. The results of these calculations do not have a direct connection with the amount of cash taxes to be paid in any future periods. As a result, scheduling deferred income tax liabilities as payments due by period could be misleading because this scheduling would not necessarily relate to liquidity needs. Leases We lease management and information technology space for corporate functions as well as call center space and storage space for our hub facilities under operating leases expiring at various times through 2027. Our corporate and call center leases contain renewal options for additional periods ranging from three to five years. We also lease transportation vehicles under operating leases which generally expire during the next three years. We expect that most leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases in the normal course of business. 30 Contractual Obligations and Commitments Future interest payments on the Company's variable-rate debt are based on a rate per annum equal to, at our option, (i) the London Interbank Overnight ("LIBO") rate plus a margin within the range of 1.5% to 2.5% for revolving loans, based on total leverage, or the administrative agent's base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.5% to 1.5%, as specified in the agreement. Future interest payments related to our Revolving Facility are based on the borrowings outstanding at that time. Future interest payments may be different depending on future borrowing activity and interest rates. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2022. On November 26, 2021, the Company issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes that bear a fixed annual interest rate of 6.00%. Interest accrues on the outstanding balance and is payable semi-annually. The Senior Notes will mature on November 15, 2029. The Company has no long-term commitments to purchase merchandise nor does it have significant purchase agreements that specify minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. Unfunded Lending Commitments The Company, through its Vive business, has unconditionally cancellable unfunded lending commitments totaling approximately $499.0 million and $467.6 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, that do not give rise to revenues and cash flows. These unfunded commitments arise in the ordinary course of business from credit card agreements with individual cardholders that give them the ability to borrow, against unused amounts, up to the maximum credit limit assigned to their account. While these unfunded amounts represented the total available unused lines of credit, the Company does not anticipate that all cardholders will utilize their entire available line at any given point in time. Commitments to extend unsecured credit are agreements to lend to a cardholder so long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Critical Accounting Policies Refer to the 2021 Annual Report. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including pronouncements that were adopted in the current year.