Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the historical revenue generated by each of Injection Molding, CNC Machining, 3D Printing and Sheet Metal. In 2021, we augmented our internal manufacturing operations through our acquisition of Hubs to expand the envelope of custom parts we can provide to our customers through a network of premium manufacturing partners in each of our product lines. 9 Table of Contents Injection Molding Our Injection Molding product line uses our 3D CAD-to-CNC machining technology for the automated design and manufacture of molds, which are then used to produce custom plastic and liquid silicone rubber injection-molded parts and over-molded and insert-molded injection-molded parts on commercially available equipment. Our Injection Molding product line works best for on-demand production, bridge tooling, pilot runs and functional prototyping. Our affordable molds and quick turnaround times help reduce design risk and limit overall production costs for product developers and engineers. Because we retain possession of the molds, customers who need short-run production often come back to Proto Labs Injection Molding product line for additional quantities. They do so to support pilot production for product testing, while their tooling for high-volume production is being prepared, because they need on-demand manufacturing due to disruptions in their manufacturing process, because their product requires limited annual quantity or because they need end-of-life production support. In 2017, we launched an on-demand manufacturing injection molding service. This service utilizes our existing processes, but is designed to fulfill the needs of customers with on-going production needs. CNC Machining Our CNC Machining product line uses commercially available CNC machines to offer milling and turning. CNC milling is a manufacturing process that cuts plastic and metal blocks into one or more custom parts based on the 3D CAD model uploaded by the customer. CNC turning is a subtractive manufacturing process that rotates a metal rod while a cutting tool is used to remove material and create final parts. Quick-turn CNC machining works best for prototyping, form and fit testing, jigs and fixtures and functional components for end-use applications. Industrial 3D Printing Our Industrial 3D Printing product line includes SL, SLS, DMLS, MJF, PolyJet, Carbon DLS and fused deposition modeling (FDM) processes, which offers customers a wide-variety of high-quality, precision rapid prototyping and low volume production. These processes create parts with a high level of accuracy, detail, strength and durability. Industrial 3D Printing is best suited for functional prototypes, complex designs and end-use applications. Sheet Metal Our Sheet Metal product line includes quick-turn and e-commerce-enabled custom sheet metal parts, providing customers with prototype and low-volume production parts. The rapid prototype sheet metal process is most often used when form, fit and function are all a priority. Our manufacturing process uses customer 3D CAD models uploaded by the customer to fabricate rapid prototyping sheet metal or end-use production parts and assemblies. Our Growth Strategy We currently operate in a global custom contract manufacturing market which is a form of outsourcing where companies enter into an arrangement or formal agreement with another company or individual for the manufacture of complete parts, products, or components. Since our inception, we have focused on areas where we could automate the manufacturing process via our digital model. Our initial focus was on prototypes and simple parts and have added complexity over time. We have added product lines and expanded those product lines to meet the needs of our customers, which has ultimately driven our growth. Historically, we focused on speed, reliability and quality as key components of our differentiation, and customers used us for production where there was a good fit. We have positioned ourselves to avoid routine, low margin, high-volume commoditized manufacturing. We have evolved from serving primarily fast response prototypes to broader customer use cases including higher requirements, such as a tighter tolerance, broader ranges of lead times and price points and quality and process documentation to support production needs. We have further expanded our offering through the acquisition of Hubs to be able to serve our customers more holistically, augmenting our in-house manufacturing capabilities with a network of premium manufacturing partners to serve our customer needs that currently reside outside of our internal manufacturing capabilities. As we integrate with Hubs, our goal is to go from being one of the fastest and most reliable providers of custom parts to one of the most comprehensive in our four services. Combining our unprecedented in-house manufacturing with Hubs broad services offer and wide variety of price and lead time options expands our ability to provide value to our customers and differentiates us from competitors. 10 Table of Contents The principal elements of our growth strategy are to: Establish Platform (2022-2023) We serve nearly all of our customers over the internet using our e-commerce, digital model. The majority of customers upload CAD files through our secure e-commerce platform to receive a quote, and ultimately, place an order. The order is then processed through our digital model that is connected by our systems. In the fourth quarter of 2020 in Europe and in the first quarter of 2021 in the United States, we launched Protolabs 2.0 (PL 2.0), a project designed to enhance the functionality and ease of use of our platform and expanded the capabilities of our customer-facing and back-end systems in order to further increase automation and meet the evolving needs of product developers and engineers worldwide. In 2022, we launched the first iteration of our integrated offer in Europe, which allows us to offer CNC manufacturing for eligible parts through the combination of our internal digital manufacturing and our digital network of manufacturing partners. In 2021, our e-commerce platform was recognized by the World Economic Forums Global Lighthouse Network, recognizing our industry leading efforts to implement Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) technologies at our Plymouth, MN injection molding facility. The Lighthouse Network serves as a platform for manufacturers showing leadership in using 4IR technologies to share and learn best practices, support new partnerships and help other manufacturers deploy technology, adopt sustainable solutions, and transform their workforces. By implementing manufacturing automation and industrial internet of things technologies like this, we are able to unlock new levels of sustainability and efficiency for ourselves and our customers. We believe product developers and engineers have come to expect advanced web-based tools and a fully integrated Internet platform from their vendors. In the near term, PL 2.0 provides our customers a more simplified quoting and more intuitive user experience. It requires fewer clicks and provides a better overall buying experience. Further, it allows expanded production capabilities for our customers. In the long-term, we expect PL 2.0 will allow us to launch new services and capabilities faster, help integrate acquisitions more efficiently, and continue to improve the buying experience by monitoring customer feedback and how customers use the system. Our integration of the Hubs platform will position us to be able to expand our offer to provide our customers with the broadest solution for custom parts and we will continue to deliver innovation through historic and future R&D investment. With the integration of the Protolabs and Hubs architectures into a united platform, we can provide customers a complete offer with a single e-commerce storefront. This combined architecture will connect customers to the right manufacturing solution based on their needs. We will provide a range of price and lead time options providing customers with the most comprehensive custom parts solution in the world. Accelerate Growth (2022-2026) Our launch of PL 2.0 and acquisition of Hubs in 2021 provides the foundation for us to accelerate growth. The enhanced customer experience and expanded offering portfolio is expected to drive higher customer satisfaction, higher annual revenue per customer and improved customer retention. In addition, the new platform will allow us to continue to expand our parts offerings and serve a broader set of customer use cases. We serve a diverse set of customers from over a dozen industries. Accordingly, unlike most traditional manufacturers, we are not reliant on a single industry for growth. Our customers range from small start-ups to multi-national corporations. We continue to capitalize on the e-commerce revolution, as product developers and engineers move from sourcing parts traditionally to the e-commerce experience for sourcing custom parts. 11 Table of Contents We primarily focus on two types of customers: design engineers and production buyers. Our original customer, and still our largest type of customer, is the design engineer. Design engineers typically value, in order of importance, reliability, speed, quality, breadth of manufacturing capabilities, ease of use and price. Our first growth opportunity is to capture more wallet share by being a single provider for all their needs. The breadth and depth of our offering expanded with our acquisition of Hubs, allowing us to better serve our design engineers. Our enhanced offering is expected to lead to higher customer retention, greater customer satisfaction and increased revenue per customer as we serve more of their product needs. Our second type of customer is the production buyer. Our ability to move quickly from prototyping to production enables us to serve the low volume, on-demand production needs of our customers. Shorter product life cycles, unpredictable demand, and the need to get products to market more quickly have increased the demand for our production offering. Production buyers typically value, in order of importance, quality, total cost of ownership, reliability, breadth of manufacturing capabilities, ease of use and speed. Transitioning with our customers to production has been a newer growth strategy for us and we historically captured only a portion of production business. Through our internal R&D road map and our acquisition of Hubs, we continue to expand our production capabilities to be able to serve more of our customers needs, including offering a variety of price points and lead times, quality documentation and 3D printing production for certain use cases. Finally, we anticipate our new complete and comprehensive offering will be attractive to new customers. We expect to continue to acquire new customers from traditional shops by communicating the advantages of digital manufacturing. The breadth of our offer will allow us to be a single supplier, or one-stop-shop, for all of our customer's needs. Expand Profitability (2025 and beyond) The market in which we play, the tremendous value we deliver to our customers and our ability to expand our capabilities to serve our customers, has allowed us to grow from revenue of $126.0 million in 2012, the year of our IPO, to revenue of $488.4 million in 2022. As we establish our platform and accelerate growth, we are positioned to serve customers more holistically, which we expect will drive continued, long-term sustainable revenue growth, and ultimately, expanded profitability. In recent years, we have focused on expanding our capabilities and investing in building our base infrastructure to support our long-term growth. Our integrated offer and service expansion will provide the platform for accelerating our growth. Going forward, we aim to leverage scale and innovation to expand profitability and capture enhanced operational efficiencies. Marketing As a customer-centric organization, we continue to evolve our go-to-market strategy. We believe we have three marketing opportunities to capitalize on: 1) expanding business with existing customers, including engineers and buyers, 2) engaging buyers who are new to us and are increasing e-commerce spend as manufacturing digitalizes, and 3) capturing engineers who are new to us and are turning to digital manufacturing solutions. Our global marketing effort generates leads for our sales teams and seeks to strengthen our reputation as an industry leader in digital manufacturing services for custom prototyping and low-volume manufacturing. Since we are an agile, technology-based company, much of our marketing activities occur online. We use marketing automation software to enhance the productivity of our marketing and sales teams and continuously track the results of our campaigns to ensure our return on investment. We maintain top-of-mind brand awareness with product developers and engineers through regular publication of technical information including design guidelines and helpful tips, engineering white papers, educational webinars, quick videos, and a quarterly journal focused on important industry topics. We also provide complimentary physical design aids to designers and engineers as well as teachers and students that highlight technical aspects of injection molding to help create efficient, well-designed parts. We believe these educational materials are key aspects of our lead generation efforts. 12 Table of Contents Marketing represents the face of Proto Labs, so it is our goal to actively and intelligently engage buyers and engineers across multiple mediums whether print, online, social media or in person. By doing this, we gain new customers, drive sales and build brand equity. Sales and Customer Service We maintain an internal sales team trained in the basics of part design and the capabilities of our manufacturing product lines, as well as the key advantages of our processes over alternate methods of custom parts manufacturing. We organize our sales team into complementary roles: business development, account management and strategic account management, with the former focused on selling to new customer companies within targeted market segments and the latter two focused on expanding sales within existing customer companies. We believe our sales staff is adept at researching customer companies and networking to find additional customers who may have a need for our products. We also have a team of customer service engineers who can support highly technical engineering discussions with product developers and engineers as required during the sales process. Our revenue is generated from a diverse customer base, with no single customer company representing more than 5% of our total revenue in 2022. In our history, we have served over 85% of the 2022 Fortune 500 companies in our target industries. Competition The market for custom parts manufacturing is fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include: Other custom parts manufacturers. There are thousands of alternative manufacturing machine shops, injection molding suppliers, sheet metal fabricators, and 3D printing service bureaus and vendors worldwide. The size and scale of these businesses range from very small specialty shops to large, high-volume production manufacturers. Brokers. There are an increasing number of digital brokers that provide product developers with a network of manufacturers, generally a subset of the other custom parts manufacturers described above, that can offer a diverse range of capabilities, capacity, competitive pricing and desired lead times to meet customer demand. Captive in-house product manufacturing. Many larger companies undertaking product development have established additive rapid prototyping (3D printing), CNC machining, injection molding or sheet metal capabilities internally to support prototyping or manufacturing requirements of their product developers and engineers. We believe that the key competitive factors in our industry include: Quality: dimensional accuracy, surface finish, color and cleanliness; Speed: turnaround time for quotations and parts; Reliability: highly reliable delivery with predictable lead times; Service: overall customer experience, from web interface to post-sales support; Capability: range of part sizes and dimensional complexities supported, variety of manufacturing processes offered, materials supported and post-processing provided; Scale: ability to support thousands of part designs in parallel; 13 Table of Contents Capacity: ability to manage peaks in demand with very short lead times and no minimum order quantities; and Price: competitive mold and part pricing, including total cost of ownership. We believe that our digital end-to-end manufacturing capability positions us favorably and has enabled us to become a leader in our markets. We also believe that substantially all of our current direct competitors are smaller than us in terms of size of operations, revenue, number of customers and volume of parts sold, and generally lack our technological capabilities, or where developed at scale, have yet to operate profitably. However, our industry is evolving rapidly and other companies, including potentially larger and more established companies with developed technological capabilities, may begin to focus on low volume, high mix custom parts manufacturing. These companies could more directly compete with us, along with our existing competitors, and could also launch new products and product lines that we do not offer that may quickly gain market acceptance. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our ability to attract customers. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Our corporate responsibility and sustainability practices are built on a foundation of shared fundamental values of teamwork, trust and achievement, and help us to deliver strong financial results that create value for our Company and our shareholders in a way that respects our communities and the environments in which we operate. The Company's three core values are embodied in everything we do. Teamwork We are dedicated to the idea that a diversity of minds is better than one. Through open communication, we strive to collaborate with and include all of our colleagues to maximize our creativity and to make our good ideas great. We respect each others opinions. We help colleagues who are struggling to improve, so our success is everyones success. Trust Our integrity is built on honest answers to our customers and colleagues. It is okay to make mistakes if we use them to learn. We navigate difficult situations with compassion. The success of our Company depends on the success of our people. Achievement Speed and innovation are the cornerstones of our success. We are committed to being a solution for getting things done quickly and sustainably and a catalyst for great ideas for our shareholders, customers, the environment and each other. We are responsible for our performance, our results and our future. 14 Table of Contents 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Strategy and Risk Assessment Process In 2021, our board of directors, executives and leaders throughout the organization focused to identify our top environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities for 2022 and beyond. In 2022, for each of our top priorities, we focused to: (1) identify data, measures and metrics, (2) assess our current performance, (3) set both short- and long-term goals for each of our top priorities, and (4) begin to execute on our plans for each of these areas. The figure below shows the results of our ESG priority setting initiative in terms of both importance to shareholders and our Companys success. 15 Table of Contents Our environmental key priorities include: Environmental compliance Energy use reduction Waste management/recycling In 2022, our environmental initiative was to define our key priorities and focus areas. Once our key priorities were defined, we implemented cross functional teams to begin collecting base data related to energy use and waste management/recycling. Data is being monitored and tracked, with the intent to review 12 months of baseline data in 2023 to ensure action plans now and in the future are resulting in measurable results. For areas where data was not currently available, we are implementing action plans and processes to enable us to track baseline data in the future. Our social key priorities include: Ethics and integrity Employee health and well being Diversity, equity and inclusion In 2022, we strived to define our key priorities and focus areas. We established goals and initiatives specific to each key area, determined whether goals were global or regional in nature and established action plans to drive improvement. Our governance key priorities include: Ethics, compliance and transparency Regulatory management Risk and crisis management In 2022, we developed a formal enterprise risk management program, which included input from our board of directors and various levels of company leadership. Our program includes formal enterprise and fraud risk assessments. The results of the enterprise risk management program will be used to drive governance key priorities and company strategy in 2023 and beyond. In addition, we set regulatory management goals around International Traffic in Arms Regulation and global export compliance and established enhanced decision authority and signatory matrices to drive governance oversight and compliance. 16 Table of Contents Environmental Digital Manufacturing Drives Sustainability As a digital manufacturer, we are able to assist our customers as they focus on materials management, operational productivity and on-demand solutions. Digital manufacturing is a solution our customers can deploy to reduce product waste by iterating part designs virtually, on a digital twin model before any actual production begins. With on-demand production of parts, there is also reduced reliance on storage facilities since inventory is virtual the parts you need, when you need them. Our on-demand manufacturing model also helps customers with end-of-life planning for products, reducing the need for ordering excess parts with shifting market demand. When paired with a robust e-commerce platform, digital manufacturing can also increase efficiencies in material selection and usage, the procurement process, and accelerating innovation. Furthermore, reducing scrap rate requires monitoring systems that enable automated process cycle sheet generation, ensuring run-to-run repeatability and reducing operator error. This kind of monitoring system can improve consistency in part production and reduce scrap costs, especially in injection molding and parts nonconformance. We believe sustainability in product development, and in manufacturing, is the future and we will continue to support our customers in their own sustainability journeys. Environmental Initiatives We are committed to having a positive impact on the environment. In 2022, we hosted InspirON in Europe, an online knowledge sharing event to focus on what design engineers need to consider when developing sustainable products for manufacturing. The event was designed to provide insight into designing more sustainable products and to explore how design can help make the manufacturing process greener and more efficient. The event covered topics ranging from: sustainable material selection, to the role that digital manufacturing and industry 4.0 will play, to how to develop and optimize a sustainable supply chain. In 2021, we were awarded a Manufacturing Leadership Award from the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) in the Sustainability Leadership category. This category recognizes companies embracing manufacturing processes that are non-polluting, conserve energy and natural resources, and are economically sound and safe for employees, communities, and consumers. In 2020, we installed nearly 1,900 solar panels on the roof of our facility in Plymouth, MN, one of our larger manufacturing facilities. The solar array covers nearly 20 percent of our energy use in Plymouth, MN and offsets the equivalent of 1.3 million pounds of CO 2 and preserves 775 acres of forest annually. We strive to maximize recycling in both our manufacturing and office facilities. In our manufacturing facilities, we recycle metal, plastic and water used throughout the manufacturing processes. Finally, the Green Team, an employee-led organization, educates our employees on how they can positively impact the environment, both at work and at home. The Green Team also provides opportunities for employees to positively impact the environment, including activities like roadside cleanup and tree planting. Social Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Protolabs, diversity, equity and inclusion matters. We are committed to nurturing a culture where we celebrate diversity, equity and inclusivity as a way of life. Our diversity and inclusion efforts start at the top with our board regularly reviewing initiatives. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Council was established to promote honest conversations, influence best practices and educate our employees. Our DEI Leadership Council members are employee representatives chosen from various functions and locations to work directly with our leadership team to drive change in our work environment. We also require certain employees to participate in annual unconscious bias training to further foster a work environment of fairness and sensitivity. As we continue to grow, we will continue to emphasize employee safety and having an inclusive work environment as top priorities. Our goal is to build diverse teams throughout the global organization and be a role model for the communities where we work and live. Uniqueness defines us as a company, from our custom products to our employees. Our pledge is to promote a global culture that invites, recognizes and embraces each individuals contributions to make a stronger US. Workforce Demographics As of December 31, 2022, we had 2,568 full-time employees, including 1,787 full-time employees in the United States, 777 full-time employees in Europe and 4 full-time employees in Japan. We also regularly use independent contractors and other temporary employees across the organization to augment our regular staff. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain qualified, diverse and inclusive personnel. We are an equal opportunity employer, and we believe that a diverse workforce made up of people with different ideas, strengths, interests and cultural backgrounds drives employee and business success. Our workforce is composed of a diverse group of engineers, technicians and business professionals from around the world and every walk of life. We believe our employees are critical to our success and continually seek employee feedback to enhance employee engagement. In 2022, our attrition rates were higher than normal. Our attrition rates were 21.8% and 23.1% in the United States and Europe, respectively. Compensation and Benefits We believe our success depends in large measure on our ability to attract, retain and motivate a broad range of employees to be successful in a dynamic and changing business environment, and that a competitive compensation program is essential. In determining employee compensation, our executive leadership team reviews and considers several factors, including individual and corporate performance, input from managers, competitor market data from third party compensation surveys, our compensation philosophy and key principles, and the leaderships collective experience and knowledge. Annually, our executive leadership team reviews input from managers throughout our organization, including recommendations as to compensation levels that the managers believe are commensurate with an individuals job performance, skills, experience, qualifications, criticality to our company and development/career opportunities. We also award long-term equity-based compensation to high performing employees and managers who have the greatest impact on the creation of shareholder value to further align the interests of our employees and shareholders. We provide employee benefits that meet or exceed the requirements of local law. We are committed to providing comprehensive benefits plans including, but not limited to, paid leave, retirement savings, health benefits, dental benefits, maternity leave, parental leave, family care leave, and childcare benefits. All overtime is performed and compensated in accordance with the law and the individuals employment contract or other applicable contract or collective agreement. Education We firmly believe that investing in the education of our employees is critical to our success. Our employees are provided access to a robust learning management system that offers hundreds of courses on various topics ranging from compliance to leadership and for job-specific skills. In 2022 and 2021, employees spent an average of 36 and 14 hours, respectively, per employee in training sessions. We provide an Educational Assistance Program for employees, which offers financial assistance for both professional and personal development to inspire employees to continuously enhance their skills and knowledge. We have a customized leadership development program designed for current and aspiring managers in search of developing their leadership skills. The program provides training on topics that are aligned with our Leadership Principles and our Core Values. In 2022, we launched a pilot mentorship program to provide opportunity for mentors and mentees to accelerate their personal and professional development through a one-on-one guided relationship. In order to ensure our industry remains robust, we are committed to supporting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs in the cities where we have facilities. Through the Protolabs Foundation, we provide STEM education grants to eligible organizations. In addition, we partner with schools, colleges and universities to provide various outreach opportunities and sponsorships. 17 Table of Contents Health, Safety and Wellness We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment that minimizes health and safety risks. Our processes support accident prevention and prioritizes the health and safety of all of our employees and all others affected by their activities. We provide and require our employees to use personal protective equipment at all times. To ensure our employees understand the importance of safety, we provide regular, mandatory training. We strive to continuously improve our employees health, safety and wellness. Our I Am safety program teaches that safety is the responsibility of every individual in our organization. We believe this program is the basis for our excellent safety compliance record. We believe that our employees are our most valuable asset, and their safety and health is among our top priorities. In addition to concentrating on employee safety in the workplace, we also focus on the overall wellbeing of our employees. We continue to invest in a variety of employee health and wellness programs, including gym membership discounts, on-site yoga classes at certain facilities, wellness newsletters and learning sessions, and providing various Employee Assistance Programs. Charitable Giving We pride ourselves in being a responsible corporate citizen through our Protolabs Foundation. We support several charitable causes with our Employee Matching, Cool Ideas, and Major Gifts Programs. The Foundations efforts serve as a sustaining investment in the future of the communities where our employees live and work, and also a commitment to build talent to support the future employment needs of the manufacturing industry. ProtoGivers, our employee led community involvement team, organizes a wide variety of charitable activities, including blood drives, working for Habitat for Humanity projects, volunteering for Feed My Starving Children, and making financial contributions to charitable causes, many of which are matched through the Protolabs Foundation Employee Giving Program. Our financial support and our community outreach programs are intended to improve the quality of life in the communities where we have facilities. Human Rights We recognize our responsibility to protect human rights and we are committed to fostering an organizational culture which promotes support for internationally recognized human rights and labor standards. We strive to respect and promote human rights in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in our relationship with our employees, customers and suppliers. We have established a Human Rights Policy which is available on the Investor Relations section of our website. Supply Chain We are committed to conducting our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. We expect our suppliers to share our principles and uphold our standards and for each to develop policies and programs as appropriate to ensure that all workers understand and adhere to these standards. We have established a Vendor Code of Conduct Policy, including guidance on anti-bribery, privacy and data protection; responsible sourcing of materials; environmental standards; labor and human rights and anti-tax evasion. Our full policy is available on the Investor Relations section of our website. Intellectual Property We regard our patents, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property as valuable to our business and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, vendors and others to protect our proprietary rights. We register our patents, trademarks and service marks in the United States and other jurisdictions as we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2022, we owned and had applications pending for patents relating to various aspects of our quoting and manufacturing processes as follows: Jurisdiction Issued Patents Applications Pending United States 34 12 United Kingdom 3 0 Netherlands 1 0 Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2023 to 2042. We also owned approximately 29 registered United States trademarks or service marks as of December 31, 2022, with corresponding registered protection in Europe and Japan for the most important of these marks such as PROTO LABS, HUBS, PROTOMOLD, FIRSTCUT, PROTOQUOTE, FIRSTQUOTE, PROTOFLOW and FINELINE, corresponding approved protection in Canada for PROTO LABS, FIRSTCUT and FINELINE, and corresponding registered protection in Australia, Canada and Mexico for PROTOMOLD. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate such rights. We have been subject to claims and expect to be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, we may face claims from third parties that we have infringed their patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 5540 Pioneer Creek Drive, Maple Plain, Minnesota 55359 and our telephone number is (763) 479-3680. Our website address is www.protolabs.com. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. 18 Table of Contents The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is www.sec.gov. Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names of our current executive officers, their ages, titles, the year first appointed as an executive officer, and employment for the past five years: Robert Bodor 50 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Daniel Schumacher 48 Chief Financial Officer Oleg Ryaboy 47 Chief Technology Officer Michael R. Kenison 51 Vice President/General Manager Americas Bjoern Klaas 53 Vice President/General Manager and Managing Director Europe, Middle East and Africa Executive officers of the Company are elected at the discretion of the board of directors with no fixed terms. There are no family relationships between or among any of the executive officers or directors of the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the executive officers and any other persons pursuant to which they were selected as an officer. Robert Bodor . Dr. Bodor has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since March 2021. Prior to his current position, Dr. Bodor served as Vice President/General Manager - Americas since 2015. From July 2013 to January 2015, Dr. Bodor served as our Chief Technology Officer. From December 2012 to June 2013, Dr. Bodor served as our Director of Business Development. Prior to joining Proto Labs, from January 2011 to December 2012, Dr. Bodor held several roles at Honeywell, most recently leading SaaS business offerings for Honeywells Life Safety Division. Daniel Schumacher . Mr. Schumacher has served as our Chief Financial Officer and principal financial and accounting officer since June 2022. Prior to his current role, Mr. Schumacher served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer since December 2021. Mr. Schumacher also led investor communication, forecasting and planning, and business intelligence for the Company as Vice President of Investor Relations and FP&A from April 2017 to December 2021. From 2015 to 2017, Mr. Schumacher served as finance director in the Americas Finance & Operations organization of Stratasys, Inc, a 3D Printing OEM. From 2001 to 2015, Mr. Schumacher was in finance leadership roles of increasing responsibility for Rockwell Automation, an industrial automation company. Oleg Ryaboy . Mr. Ryaboy has served as our Chief Technology Officer since September 2022. Prior to joining Proto Labs, Mr. Ryaboy served from 2010 to 2022 as Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President at Digital River, a global e-commerce platform and software-as-a-service company providing online storefronts. Michael Kenison . Mr. Kenison has served as our Vice President/General Manager - Americas since June 2021. Prior to his current position, Mr. Kenison led various teams at the Company, including as Vice President of Manufacturing, a role he held since 2013. Before his tenure at Protolabs, Mr. Kenison served in several leadership roles within the industry, including as Vice President of Manufacturing at Cardiac Science, Inc. - a medical device provider of defibrillator technology. Bjoern Klaas . Mr. Klaas has led our Companys business in Europe, Middle East and Africa as the Vice President and Managing Director since December 2017. Prior to joining Proto Labs, Mr. Klaas held key positions with global polymer supplier PolyOne from 2012 to 2017, most recently as its Vice President and General Manager for its ColorMatrix Group headquartered in the United States. From 2008 to 2012, Mr. Klaas worked at Colorant-Chromatics, a global leader for high temperature polymer formulations, as the General Manager for the global business. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are the significant factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Business We face significant competition and expect to face increasing competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our operating results to suffer. The market for custom parts manufacturing is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete for customers with a wide variety of custom parts manufacturers and methods. Some of our current and potential competitors include captive in-house product lines, other custom parts manufacturers, brokers of custom parts and alternative manufacturing vendors such as those utilizing 3D printing processes. Moreover, some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of products and product lines. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for custom parts manufacturing that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products and from improvements to existing technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may attempt to adopt and improve upon key aspects of our business model, such as development of technology that automates much of the manual labor conventionally required to quote and manufacture custom parts, implementation of interactive web-based and automated user interface and quoting systems and/or building scalable operating models specifically designed for efficient custom production. Third-party CAD software companies may develop software that mold-makers, injection molders and CNC machine shops could use to compete with our business model. Additive manufacturers may develop stronger, higher temperature resins or introduce other improvements that could more effectively compete with us on part quality. We may also, from time to time, establish alliances or relationships with other competitors or potential competitors. To the extent companies terminate such relationships and establish alliances and relationships with our competitors, our business could be harmed. Existing and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources and name recognition than us, as well as experience and expertise in intellectual property rights and operating within certain international locations, any of which may enable them to compete effectively against us. Though we plan to continue to expend resources to develop new technologies, processes and product lines, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. Our challenge to develop new products manufactured internally is finding product lines for which our automated quotation and manufacturing processes offer an attractive value proposition, and we may not be able to find any new product lines with potential economies of scale similar to our existing product lines. We mitigate this risk through products offered by our manufacturing partner network via our acquisition of Hubs in 2021. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new technologies, processes and product lines, the demand for our products and product lines may decline and our operating results may suffer. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure to meet the needs of our business. A key element to our continued growth is the ability to quickly and efficiently quote an increasing number of product developer and engineer submissions across geographic regions and to manufacture the related parts. This will require us to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure to meet the needs of our business. With respect to our websites and quoting technology, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve their performance, especially during periods of heavy usage and as our solutions become more complex and our user traffic increases across geographic regions. Similarly, our manufacturing automation technology may not enable us to process the large numbers of unique designs and efficiently manufacture the related parts in a timely fashion to meet the needs of product developers and engineers as our business continues to grow. Any failure in our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure could negatively impact our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, damage our reputation and brand, result in lost revenue, and otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Economic uncertainty arising from the recent COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our business and results of operations and could continue to do so in the future. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and associated counter-acting measures implemented by governments around the world, as well as increased business uncertainty, has adversely affected our business and results of operations and could continue to do so in the future. The Company is monitoring the global COVID-19 pandemic and has taken steps to mitigate the risks to our employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The current business environment and quickly evolving market conditions require significant management judgment to interpret and quantify the actual and potential impact on our assumptions about future financial performance and operating cash flows. To the extent that changes in the current business environment continue to impact our ability to achieve levels of forecasted operating results and cash flows, if our stock price were to trade below book value per share for an extended period of time and/or should other events occur indicating the carrying value of our assets might be impaired, we may be required to recognize impairment losses on goodwill, intangible and tangible assets. Numerous factors may cause us not to maintain the revenue growth that we have historically experienced. We believe that our continued revenue growth will depend on many factors, a number of which are out of our control, including among others, our ability to: retain and further penetrate existing customer companies, as well as attract new customer companies; consistently execute on custom part orders in a manner that satisfies product developers and engineers needs and provides them with a superior experience; develop new technologies or manufacturing processes and broaden the range of parts we offer; successfully execute on our international strategy and expand into new geographic markets; capitalize on product developer and engineer expectations for access to comprehensive, user-friendly e-commerce capabilities 24 hours per day, 7 days per week; increase the strength and awareness of our brand across geographic regions; respond to changes in product developer and engineer needs, technology and our industry; successfully integrate operations and offerings of acquisitions; react to challenges from existing and new competitors; continue to attract and retain R&D professionals who will continue to expand our technologies; and respond to an economic recession which negatively impacts manufacturers' ability to innovate and bring new products to market. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing the factors above and continuing to grow our business and revenue. 21 Table of Contents Interruptions to, or other problems with, our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability, consistency, security and availability of our websites and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes and other operations are critical to our reputation and brand, and to our ability to effectively service product developers and engineers. Any interruptions or other problems that cause any of our websites, interactive user interface or information technology systems to malfunction or be unavailable, or negatively impact our manufacturing processes or other operations, may damage our reputation and brand, result in lost revenue, cause us to incur significant costs seeking to remedy the problem and otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. A number of factors or events could cause such interruptions or problems, including among others: human and software errors, design faults, challenges associated with upgrades, changes or new facets of our business, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and security breaches, contract disputes, labor strikes and other workforce-related issues, capacity constraints due to an unusually large number of product developers and engineers accessing our websites or ordering parts at the same time, and other similar events. These risks are augmented by the fact that our customers come to us largely for our quick-turn manufacturing capabilities and that accessibility and turnaround speed are often of critical importance to these product developers and engineers. We are dependent upon our facilities through which we satisfy all of our production demands, as well as managerial, customer service, sales, marketing and other similar functions, and we have not identified alternatives to these facilities or established fully redundant systems in multiple locations. However, we have redundant computing systems for each of our United States and European operations. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and therefore preventing, identifying and rectifying problems with these aspects of our systems is to a large extent outside of our control. Moreover, the business interruption insurance that we carry may not be sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business that may result from interruptions in our product lines as a result of system failures. We store confidential customer information in our systems that, if breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, may harm our reputation or brand or expose us to liability. Our system stores, processes and transmits our customers confidential information, including the intellectual property in their part designs and other sensitive data. We rely on encryption, authentication and other technologies licensed from third parties, as well as administrative and physical safeguards, to secure such confidential information. Any compromise of our information security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss, costly litigation and liability that would substantially harm our business and operating results. We may not have adequately assessed the internal and external risks posed to the security of our companys systems and information and may not have implemented adequate preventative safeguards or take adequate reactionary measures in the event of a security incident. In addition, most states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals and often state authorities of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our existing and prospective customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation and brand and could cause the loss of customers. Aspects of our business are subject to privacy, data use and data security regulations, which may impact the way we use data to target customers. Privacy and security laws and regulations may limit the use and disclosure of certain information and require us to adopt certain cybersecurity and data handling practices that may affect our ability to effectively market our services to current, past or prospective customers. In many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data security breach, and such notification requirements continue to increase in scope and cost. The changing privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhereincluding the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union, which became effective May 25, 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which was enacted on June 28, 2018, and became effective on January 1, 2020create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations, including disclosure obligations, on companies handling personal data. The impact of these continuously evolving laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the way we use data to digitally market and pursue our customers. 22 Table of Contents Global economic conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. The prospects for economic growth in regions where we operate remain uncertain and could worsen. Economic concerns and other issues such as reduced access to capital for businesses may cause product developers and engineers to further delay or reduce the product development projects that our business supports. Given the continued uncertainty concerning the global economy, we face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, product developers, and engineers and other related risks to our business. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. We have established our operations in the United States and Europe and are seeking to further expand our international operations. In addition to English, our website is available in British English, French, German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. Our international revenue accounted for approximately 21%, 21% and 20% of our total revenue in the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The future growth and profitability of our international business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Many of the following factors have adversely affected our international operations and sales to customers located outside of the United States and may again in the future: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly in new geographic locations; challenges in providing solutions across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions, political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics, and other similar outbreaks or events; economic uncertainty, including significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, resulting from Brexit; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; differences in product developer and engineer preferences and means of procuring parts; compliance with and changes in foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including those associated with export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions and antitrust and data privacy concerns; different, complex and changing laws governing intellectual property rights, sometimes affording companies lesser protection in certain areas; differing levels of use of the Internet or 3D CAD software; seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe and holiday season; higher costs of doing business internationally; interruptions resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; taxation; energy costs; restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; transportation delays; and increased payment risk and higher levels of payment fraud. Our business depends on product developers and engineers demand for our product lines, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and companies desire or ability to make investments in new products. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in ways that reduce demand for our product lines, disrupt our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts or otherwise negatively impact our business. Acts of terrorism, wars, public health issues and increased energy costs could disrupt commerce in ways that could impair our ability to get products to our customers and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. We have not undertaken hedging transactions to cover our foreign currency exposure, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are often made on unsecured credit terms, and a deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our future operations from natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires or flooding. Such extreme weather conditions could pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt operation of our supply chain and may increase operational costs. Concern over climate change could result in new legal or regulatory requirements designed to mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory requirements, we may experience increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations and raw material sourcing, manufacturing operations and the distribution of our products may be affected. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes any of our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales will decline. All of our in-house manufacturing products are produced in 9 manufacturing facilities, located in Rosemount, Minnesota; Plymouth, Minnesota; Brooklyn Park, Minnesota; Cary, North Carolina; Nashua, New Hampshire (2 facilities); Telford, United Kingdom; Putzbrunn, Germany; and Eschenlohe, Germany. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes, fires, hurricanes, tsunamis and nuclear disasters. In the event any of our facilities are affected by a disaster, we may: be unable to meet the shipping deadlines of our customers; experience disruptions in our ability to process submissions and generate quotations, manufacture and ship parts, provide marketing and sales support and customer service, and otherwise operate our business, any of which could negatively impact our business; be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers; need to expend significant capital and other resources to address any damage caused by the disaster; and lose customers and be unable to regain those customers. We mitigate such risks through the addition of access to a network of manufacturing partners via our acquisition of Hubs in 2021. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any acquisition, strategic relationship, joint venture or investment could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Our business and our customer base have been built primarily through organic growth. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into other markets, or broaden our technology, intellectual property or product line capabilities. For example, in April 2014, we acquired FineLine to enable us to offer our customers 3D printing manufacturing processes; in October 2015, we acquired Alphaform to enable us to expand our 3D printing capabilities in Europe; in November 2017, we acquired RAPID to enable us to offer our customers Sheet Metal and expand our CNC Machining processes; and in 2021 we acquired Hubs to provide our customers with on-demand access to a global network of premium manufacturing partners. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of any future acquisitions or other similar strategic transactions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. Such transactions may be complex, time consuming and expensive, and may present numerous challenges and risks including: an acquired company, asset or technology not furthering our business strategy as anticipated; difficulties entering and competing in new product or geographic markets and increased competition, including price competition; integration challenges; challenges in working with strategic partners and resolving any related disagreements or disputes; high valuation for a company, asset or technology, or changes in the economic or market conditions or assumptions underlying our decision to acquire; significant problems or liabilities associated with acquired businesses, assets or technologies, including increased intellectual property and employment related litigation exposure; an acquisition that results in a significant amount of goodwill being recognized, which could result in future impairment charges that would reduce our earnings; and requirements to record substantial charges and amortization expenses related to certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation and other items, as well as other charges or expenses. 24 Table of Contents Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments after we have expended resources on them, as well as divert our managements attention. Any failure to successfully address these challenges or risks could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any such transaction may not be viewed favorably by investors or stakeholders. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions, relationships, joint ventures or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. Our success depends on our ability to deliver products and product lines that meet the needs of product developers and engineers and to effectively respond to changes in our industry. We derive almost all of our revenue from the manufacture and sale to product developers and engineers of quick-turn low volumes of custom parts for prototyping, support of internal manufacturing and limited quantity product release. Our business has been, and, we believe, will continue to be, affected by changes in product developer and engineering requirements and preferences, rapid technological change, new product and product line introductions and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our technology, products and product lines less attractive, uneconomical or obsolete. To the extent that our customers need for quick-turn parts decreases significantly for any reason, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our competitive position. In addition, CAD simulation and other technologies may reduce the demand for physical prototype parts. Therefore, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continually enhance and improve our technology, product offerings and product lines. In particular, we plan to increase our research and development efforts and to continue to focus a significant portion of those efforts to further develop our technology in areas such as our interactive user interface and manufacturing processes and broaden the range of parts that we are able to manufacture. We believe successful execution of this part of our business plan is critical for our ability to compete in our industry and grow our business, and there are no guarantees we will be able to do so in a timely fashion, or at all. Broadening the range of parts we offer is of particular importance since limitations in manufacturability are the primary reason we are not able to fulfill many quotation requests. There are no guarantees that the resources devoted to executing on this aspect of our business plan will improve our business and operating results or result in increased demand for our products and product lines. Failures in this area could adversely impact our operating results and harm our reputation and brand. Even if we are successful in executing in these areas, our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change, and our competitors may develop new technologies, processes and product lines that are superior to ours. Our research and development costs were approximately $38.2 million, $44.2 million and $36.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and there is no guarantee that these costs will enable us to maintain or grow our revenue profitability. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion related to research and development costs. Any failure to properly meet the needs of product developers and engineers or respond to changes in our industry on a cost-effective and timely basis, or at all, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our competitive position. Our failure to meet our customers' expectations regarding quick turnaround time would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe many product developers and engineers are facing increased pressure from global competitors to be first to market with their finished products, often resulting in a need for quick turnaround of custom parts. We believe our ability to quickly quote, manufacture and ship custom parts has been an important factor in our results to date. There are no guarantees we will be able to meet product developers and engineers increasing expectations regarding quick turnaround time, especially as we increase the scope of our operations. If we fail to meet our customers expectations regarding turnaround time in any given period, our business and results of operations will likely suffer. Our failure to meet our customers price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our product lines is sensitive to price. We believe our competitive pricing has been an important factor in our results to date. Therefore, changes in our pricing strategies can have a significant impact on our business and ability to generate revenue. Many factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers price expectations in any given period, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. Our failure to meet our customers' quality specifications would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe many product developers and engineers have a need for specific quality of quick-turn, on-demand custom parts. We believe our ability to create parts with the specifications of the product developers and engineers is an important factor in our results to date. If we fail to meet our customers specifications in any given period, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. 25 Table of Contents The strength of our brand is important to our business, and any failure to maintain and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain and expand our customer base as well as further penetrate existing customers. Since our products and product lines are sold primarily through our websites, the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract new and repeat customers to our websites in order to increase business and grow our revenue. Customer awareness and the perceived value of our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts, as well as our ability to consistently provide quality custom parts within the required timeframes and positive customer experiences, which we may not do successfully. A primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of our brand, and we have incurred and plan to continue to incur substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts directed toward enhancing our brand. We have initiated marketing efforts through social media, but this method of marketing may not be successful and subjects us to a greater risk of inconsistent messaging and bad publicity. We may choose to increase our branding expense materially, but we cannot be sure that this investment will be profitable. If we are unable to successfully maintain and enhance our brand, this could have a negative impact on our business and ability to generate revenue. Our business depends in part on our ability to process a large volume of new part designs from a diverse group of product developers and engineers and successfully identify significant opportunities for our business based on those submissions. We believe the volume of new part designs we process and the size and diversity of our customer base give us valuable insight into the needs of our prospective customers. We utilize this industry knowledge to determine where we should focus our development resources. If the number of new part designs we process or the size and diversity of our customer base decrease, our ability to successfully identify significant opportunities for our business and meet the needs of product developers and engineers could be negatively impacted. In addition, even if we do continue to process a large number of new part designs and work with a significant and diverse customer base, there are no guarantees that any industry knowledge we extract from those interactions will be successfully utilized to help us identify significant business opportunities or better understand the needs of product developers and engineers. The loss of one or more key members of our management team or personnel, or our failure to attract, integrate and retain additional personnel in the future, could harm our business and negatively affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of the key members of our management team and other personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, each of whom is at will and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, could disrupt our operations and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train and motivate qualified personnel. A possible shortage of qualified individuals in the regions where we operate might require us to pay increased compensation to attract and retain key employees, thereby increasing our costs. In addition, we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous companies, many of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources and name recognition than us. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational, managerial and other requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Our failure to attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we fail to grow our business as anticipated, our net sales, gross margin and operating margin will be adversely affected. We are attempting to grow our business substantially. To this end, we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our business, including investments in our infrastructure, technology, and marketing and sales efforts. These investments include dedicated facilities expansion and increased staffing, both domestic and international. If our business does not generate the level of revenue required to support our investment, our net sales and profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation and brand may be damaged, and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Over the past several years, we have experienced rapid growth. For example, we have grown from 2,487 full-time employees as of December 31, 2018 to 2,568 full-time employees as of December 31, 2022. We have expanded internationally, including establishing manufacturing operations in Europe in 2005. In 2014, we expanded our product lines with 3D Printing through our acquisition of FineLine. In 2015, we expanded our manufacturing operations and our 3D Printing product lines in Europe through our acquisition of Alphaform. In 2017, we expanded our product lines to include Sheet Metal through our acquisition of RAPID. In 2021, we expanded the breadth of products and lead times we offer through the acquisition of Hubs. We expect this growth to continue and the number of countries and facilities from which we operate to increase in the future. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated growth and expansion of our operations will require us to do, among other things, the following: enhance our operational, financial and management controls and infrastructure, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures, in particular as we continue to operate as a global organization; effectively scale our operations, including accurately predicting the need for floor space, equipment, and additional staffing; integrate the offer and operations of acquisitions; successfully identify, recruit, hire, train, develop, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees; and expand our international resources. These enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. Furthermore, our growth, combined with the geographical dispersion of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our operational, financial and management infrastructure. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and expansion. There are no guarantees we will be able to do so in an efficient or timely manner, or at all. Our failure to effectively manage growth and expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects, and reputation and brand, including impairing our ability to perform to our customers expectations. 26 Table of Contents If our present single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We acquire substantially all of the manufacturing equipment and certain of our materials that are critical to the ongoing operation and future growth of our business from several third parties. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our suppliers and operate on a purchase-order basis. While most manufacturing equipment and materials for our products are available from multiple suppliers, certain of those items are only available from single or limited sources. Should any of our present single or limited source suppliers for manufacturing equipment or materials become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms unacceptable to us such as increased pricing terms, we could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and we may not be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, may affect our supply of materials, particularly resins, from time to time, and we may purchase larger amounts of certain materials in anticipation of future shortages or increases in pricing. Global supply chain disruptions may make scarce materials or supplies critical to our product offers and adversely impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers on time. In addition, if we were unable to find a suitable supplier for a particular type of manufacturing equipment or material, we could be required to modify our existing business processes and offerings to accommodate the situation. As a result, the loss of a single or limited source supplier could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patents, licenses, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes globally. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents corresponding to our United States patents. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents and other intellectual property do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer product lines similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and lower revenue or gross margin, which would adversely affect our net income. We may be subject to infringement claims. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from individuals, vendors and other companies who have acquired or developed patents in the fields of injection molding, CNC machining, 3D printing, sheet metal fabrication or part production for purposes of developing competing products or for the sole purpose of asserting claims against us. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may prohibit or otherwise impair our ability to commercialize new or existing products. If we are unable to effectively defend our processes, our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Our failure to expand our intellectual property portfolio could adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. Expansion of our intellectual property portfolio is one of the available methods of growing our revenue and our profits. This involves a complex and costly set of activities with uncertain outcomes. Our ability to obtain patents and other intellectual property can be adversely affected by insufficient inventiveness of our employees, by changes in intellectual property laws, treaties, and regulations, and by judicial and administrative interpretations of those laws, treaties and regulations. Our ability to expand our intellectual property portfolio could also be adversely affected by the lack of valuable intellectual property for sale or license at affordable prices. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain valuable intellectual property in the jurisdictions where we and our competitors operate or that we will be able to use or license that intellectual property. 27 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business and reputation and brand. The prototype parts we manufacture and the parts we manufacture in low volumes may contain undetected defects or errors that are not discovered until after the products have been installed and used by customers. This could result in claims from customers or others, damage to our business and reputation and brand, or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business and reputation and brand, and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and product lines. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, fraud, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce, especially where these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a multinational company based in the United States and subject to tax in multiple tax jurisdictions, both domestic and abroad. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates or interpretation of tax rules, including those set forth in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017, and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into other markets, or broaden our technology, intellectual property or product line capabilities. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. 28 Table of Contents Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. In addition, our actual or projected operating results may fail to match our past performance. These events could in turn cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: the development of new competitive systems or processes by others; the entry of new competitors into our market, whether by established companies or by new companies; ability to economically source products manufactured by our network of premium manufacturing partners; changes in the size and complexity of our organization, including our international operations; levels of sales of our products and product lines to new and existing customers; the geographic distribution of our sales; changes in product developer and engineer preferences or needs; changes in the amount that we invest to develop, acquire or license new technologies and processes, which we anticipate will generally increase and may fluctuate in the future; delays between our expenditures to develop, acquire or license new technologies and processes, and the generation of sales related thereto; our ability to timely and effectively scale our business during periods of sequential quarterly or annual growth; limitations or delays in our ability to reduce our expenses during periods of declining sequential quarterly or annual revenue; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, including our responses to price competition; changes in the amount we spend in our marketing and other efforts; unexpected increases in expenses as compared to our related accounting accruals or operating plan; the volatile global economy; general economic and industry conditions that affect customer demand and product development trends; interruptions to or other problems with our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations; changes in accounting rules and tax and other laws; and plant shutdowns due to health or weather conditions. Due to all of the foregoing factors and the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. 29 Table of Contents Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we and our suppliers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our business involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us and our suppliers for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. If we are subject to any liability as a result of activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected and our reputation and brand may be harmed. If we are unable to meet quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes for the parts we manufacture, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. As a manufacturer of CNC-machined, injection-molded, 3D printed and sheet metal fabricated custom parts, we conform to certain international standards, including International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, for our facilities. The ISO standards to which we comply include the following: Location 9001:2015 AS9100D 13485:2016 14001:2015 Headquarters, Minnesota, USA Yes Yes No No Injection Molding, Minnesota, USA Yes No No No CNC Machining, Minnesota, USA Yes Yes No No 3D Printing, North Carolina, USA Yes Yes No No Sheet Metal, New Hampshire, USA Yes No No No CNC Machining, New Hampshire, USA Yes Yes No No Putzbrunn, DE Yes No Yes Yes Eschenlohe, DE Yes No No No Telford, UK Yes No No Yes Hubs, Chicago, USA and Amsterdam, NL Yes No No No If any system inspection reveals that we are not in compliance with applicable standards, registrars may take action against us, including issuing a corrective action request or discontinuing our certifications. If any of these actions were to occur, it could harm our reputation as well as our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, customer invoicing, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards or electronic checks, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. In the year ended December 31, 2022, our common stock traded as high as $61.14 and as low as $22.04. The market for our common stock may become less active, liquid or orderly, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Some of the factors, many of which are outside of our control, that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; our ability to retain and attract customers and increase net sales; pricing pressures due to competition or otherwise and changes in gross margins; changes in general economic and market conditions, economic uncertainty and changes in product development activity levels; changes in inflation driven by market conditions resulting in material and labor cost changes; announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new product or product lines offerings or significant acquisitions; timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our offerings, systems and infrastructure; changes in key personnel; success in entry into new markets and expansion efforts; the publics response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and announcements relating to litigation; the projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; the issuance of new or updated research or reports by any securities or industry analysts who follow our common stock, changes in analysts financial estimates or ratings, and failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; changes in the market valuations of similar companies; significant lawsuits, including patent or shareholder litigation; changes in laws or regulations applicable to us; changes in accounting principles; the sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; future sales of our common stock by us or our shareholders, including sales by our officers, directors and significant shareholders; share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading levels of our shares; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. 31 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or prevent or detect misstatements in our financial statements in the future could harm our business and cause a decrease in our stock price. Ensuring that we have internal financial and accounting