Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the historical revenue generated by each of Injection Molding, CNC Machining, 3D Printing and Sheet Metal. Injection Molding Our Injection Molding product line uses our 3D CAD-to-CNC machining technology for the automated design and manufacture of molds, which are then used to produce custom plastic and liquid silicone rubber injection-molded parts and over-molded and insert-molded injection-molded parts on commercially available equipment. Our Injection Molding product line works best for on-demand production, bridge tooling, pilot runs and functional prototyping. Our affordable aluminum molds and quick turnaround times help reduce design risk and limit overall production costs for product developers and engineers. Because we retain possession of the molds, customers who need short-run production often come back to Proto Labs Injection Molding product line for additional quantities. They do so to support pilot production for product testing, while their tooling for high-volume production is being prepared, because they need on-demand manufacturing due to disruptions in their manufacturing process, because their product requires limited annual quantity or because they need end-of-life production support. In 2017, we launched an on-demand manufacturing injection molding service. This service utilizes our existing processes, but is designed to fulfill the needs of customers with on-going production needs. CNC Machining Our CNC Machining product line uses commercially available CNC machines to offer milling and turning. CNC milling is a manufacturing process that cuts plastic and metal blocks into one or more custom parts based on the 3D CAD model uploaded by the product developer or engineer. CNC turning with live tooling combines both lathe and mill capabilities to machine parts with cylindrical features from metal rod stock. Our efficiencies derive from the automation of the programming of these machines and a proprietary fixturing process. Quick-turn CNC machining works best for prototyping, form and fit testing, jigs and fixtures and functional components for end-use applications. We offer competitive pricing at higher quantities, in addition to First Article Inspection (FAI) reporting, material certifications and additional in-house and outsourced finishing options, like anodizing and chromate plating. 3D Printing Our 3D Printing product line includes SL, SLS, DMLS, MJF, PolyJet and Carbon DLS processes, which offers customers a wide-variety of high-quality, precision rapid prototyping and low volume production. These processes create parts with a high level of accuracy, detail, strength and durability. Industrial 3D Printing is best suited for functional prototypes, complex designs and end-use applications. 7 Table of Contents Sheet Metal Our Sheet Metal product line includes quick-turn and e-commerce-enabled custom sheet metal parts, providing customers with prototype and low-volume production parts. The rapid prototype sheet metal process is most often used when form, fit and function are all a priority. Our manufacturing process uses customer 3D CAD models uploaded by the product developer or engineer to fabricate rapid prototyping sheet metal or end-use production parts and assemblies. Our Process The process for Injection Molding begins when the product developer or engineer uploads one or more 3D CAD models representing the desired part geometry through our website. Our proprietary software uses complex algorithms to analyze the 3D CAD geometry, analyze its manufacturability and support the creation of an interactive, web-based quotation containing pricing and manufacturability information. A link to the quotation is then e-mailed to the product developer or engineer, who can access the quotation, change a variety of order parameters and instantly see the effect on price before finalizing the order. Our proprietary software supports the creation of the mold design and the tool paths required to manufacture the mold components, which are then routed to our CNC machining centers for execution. Once the mold is assembled, it is placed in one of our injection molding presses to create the required parts. Parts are shipped in as little as one business day from design submission. We ship our parts via small parcel common carriers on standard terms and conditions. Our other services have similar processes, but differ mainly due to the nature of the manufacturing processes on which each service is based. 8 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy The principal elements of our growth strategy are to: Expand the Customer Base We plan to expand our customer base to serve more product developers and engineers within the companies that have already used our product lines. Individual product developers and engineers typically make or influence the choice of vendor when sourcing custom parts. We believe a significant opportunity exists for us to leverage highly satisfied product developers and engineers to encourage others within the same organization to utilize our product lines. We have historically gained a significant number of new customers through word-of-mouth referrals from other product developers and engineers, and combine these referrals with the efforts of our marketing and sales force to identify and market our product lines to the colleagues of our existing customers. We also plan to use our marketing and sales capabilities to continue to pursue product developers and engineers within companies who have not yet used our products. Our presence in geographic regions that have high populations of 3D CAD users provides us with a broad universe of potential new customer companies on which to focus our marketing and sales efforts. We believe there may be opportunities to grow by identifying and expanding into select additional geographic markets. We currently operate in the United States, Europe and Japan, where we believe a substantial portion of the worlds product developers and engineers are located. We entered the European market in 2005 and launched operations in Japan in 2009. For 2020, revenue earned in these markets represents approximately 20.4% of our total revenue. We believe opportunities exist to serve the needs of product developers and engineers in select new geographic regions and we will continue to evaluate such opportunities if and when they arise. In 2020, we enhanced the functionality and ease of use of our Europe platform and expanded the capabilities of our customer-facing and back-end systems in order to further increase automation and meet the evolving needs of product developers and engineers worldwide. We believe product developers and engineers have come to expect advanced web-based tools and a fully integrated Internet platform from their vendors. We will continue to use the Internet to provide product developers and engineers with a standardized interface through which they can upload their 3D CAD models and obtain firm, interactive quotations quickly and efficiently. Similar enhancements were launched in the United States in the first quarter of 2021. Launch New Manufacturing Technology We seek to identify additional manufacturing processes to which we can apply our digital technology and expertise to meet a greater range of product developers and engineers needs. Introducing new manufacturing processes can both attract new customers and provide us with a significant opportunity to cross-sell our existing product lines to our existing customer base. We regularly evaluate new manufacturing processes to offer product developers and engineers and introduce such new processes when we are confident that a sufficient market demand exists and that we can offer the same advantages our customers have come to expect from us. We were founded with Injection Molding which represents 50.2% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. Examples of new manufacturing services we have added include CNC Machining, 3D Printing and Sheet Metal. Our CNC Machining product line was first introduced in the United States and Europe in 2007, expanded to Japan in 2009, and further expanded in the United States through our acquisition of RAPID in November 2017. CNC Machining represents 30.3% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. 3D printing technologies were introduced through our acquisition of FineLine in April 2014. We further expanded our 3D printing capabilities in October 2015 through our acquisition of Alphaform. Our 3D product line represents 14.4% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our Sheet Metal product line was introduced through our acquisition of RAPID in November 2017 and represents 4.3% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. We continue to expand our core product lines through product line extensions including liquid silicone rubber injection molding, lathe-turned parts, rapid overmolding, insert molding, PolyJet, MJF and Carbon DLS. We introduced liquid silicone rubber injection molding during 2014. In 2015, we introduced lathe-turned products to expand our CNC product line. In 2016, we expanded the breadth of our manufacturing capabilities by adding rapid overmolding technology. In 2017, we added insert molding to our Injection Molding product line and PolyJet and MJF to our 3D Printing product line. In addition, we launched on-demand manufacturing to address the needs of the low-volume, high-mix product segment. We also opened our first metrology lab in 2017 for enhanced inspection reporting on end-use production parts, including First Article Inspection Reports and digital inspection reports. In 2020, we added Carbon DLS to provide a cost-effective production solution for geometric complexities that cannot be molded or otherwise fabricated. Enhance Customer Experience We serve nearly all our customers over the internet using our e-commerce, digital model. The majority of customers upload CAD files through our secure e-commerce platform to receive a quote, and ultimately, place an order. The order is then processed through our digital model that is connected by our systems. Having an industry leading customer experience is important to our overall growth strategy. In 2020, the Company was focused on Protolabs 2.0, an internal business systems project designed to evolve the way we engage and serve our customers. Through development of both our external customer-facing and internal back-end systems, Protolabs 2.0 will allow us to capitalize on market opportunities and better serve the long-term needs of our customers. We expect the long-term benefits of the project to be an improved customer experience, speed and scalability of the business, internal business insights and internal productivity. Protolabs 2.0 was successfully launched in Europe in the fourth quarter of 2020 and in the United States in the first quarter of 2021. 9 Table of Contents Broaden the Parts Envelope We regularly analyze the universe of customer design submissions that we are currently unable to manufacture and focus a portion of our research and development efforts to expand the range of parts that we can produce. Since we first introduced our Injection Molding product line in 1999, we have steadily expanded the size and geometric complexity of the injection-molded parts we are able to manufacture, and we continue to extend the diversity of materials we are able to support. Similarly, since first introducing our CNC Machining product line in 2007, we have expanded the range of part sizes, design geometries and materials we can support. In 2017, we launched PolyJet and MJF, which expanded our 3D Printing processes to support a broader range of our customers' needs. Through our acquisition of RAPID in November 2017, we added quick-turn and e-commerce-enabled Sheet Metal services to our portfolio and expanded our CNC Machining capabilities to support larger and more complex projects. In 2020, we added Carbon DLS to our 3D Printing processes, introduced precision color matching on Injection Molding parts and launched production capabilities for metal 3D Printing. In 2020, we added the world's largest metal 3D printer to allow us to produce large-format metal parts. As we continue to expand the range of our existing process capabilities, we believe we will meet the needs of a broader set of product developers and engineers and consequently convert a higher number of quotation requests into orders. Marketing As a customer centric organization, we continue to evolve our go-to-market strategy. Our global marketing effort generates prospects for our sales teams and seeks to strengthen our reputation as an industry leader in digital manufacturing services for custom prototyping and low-volume manufacturing. Since we are an agile, technology-based company, much of our marketing activities occur online. We use marketing automation software to enhance the productivity of our marketing and sales teams and continuously track the results of every campaign to ensure our return on investment. We maintain top-of-mind brand awareness with product developers and engineers through regular publication of technical information including design guidelines and helpful tips, engineering white papers, educational webinars, quick videos, and a quarterly journal focused on important industry topics. We also provide complimentary physical design aids to designers and engineers as well as teachers and students that highlight technical aspects of injection molding to help create efficient, well-designed parts. We believe these educational materials are key aspects of our lead generation efforts. Marketing represents the face of Proto Labs, so it is our goal to actively and intelligently engage designers and engineers across multiple mediums whether print, online, social media or in person. By doing this, we gain new customers, drive sales and build brand equity. Sales and Customer Service We maintain an internal sales team trained in the basics of part design and the capabilities of our manufacturing product lines, as well as the key advantages of our processes over alternate methods of custom parts manufacturing. We organize our sales team into complementary roles: business development, account management and strategic account management, with the former focused on selling to new customer companies within targeted market segments and the latter two focused on expanding sales within existing customer companies. We believe our sales staff is adept at researching customer companies and networking to find additional product developers and engineers who may have a need for our products. We also have a team of customer service engineers who can support highly technical engineering discussions with product developers and engineers as required during the sales process. Our revenue is generated from a diverse customer base, with no single customer company representing more than 2% of our total revenue in 2020. Competition The market for custom parts manufacturing is fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include: Other custom parts manufacturers. There are thousands of alternative manufacturing machine shops, injection molding suppliers, sheet metal fabricators, and 3D printing service bureaus and vendors worldwide. The size and scale of these businesses range from very small specialty shops to large, high-volume production manufacturers. Captive in-house product manufacturing. Many larger companies undertaking product development have established additive rapid prototyping (3D printing), CNC machining, injection molding or sheet metal capabilities internally to support prototyping or manufacturing requirements of their product developers and engineers. Brokers. There are an increasing number of digital brokers that provide product developers with a network of manufacturers, generally a subset of the other custom parts manufacturers described above, that can offer a diverse range of capabilities, capacity, competitive pricing and desired lead times to meet customer demand. We believe that the key competitive factors in our industry include: Quality: dimensional accuracy, surface finish, material properties, color and cleanliness; Speed: turnaround time for quotations and parts; 10 Table of Contents Reliability: greater than 97% on-time delivery with predictable lead times; Service: overall customer experience, from web interface to post-sales support; Capability: range of part sizes and dimensional complexities supported, variety of manufacturing processes offered, materials supported and post-processing provided; Scale: ability to support thousands of part designs in parallel; Capacity: ability to manage peaks in demand with very short lead times and no minimum order quantities; and Price: mold and part pricing, including total cost of ownership. We believe that our digital end-to-end manufacturing capability positions us favorably and has enabled us to become a leader in our markets. We also believe that substantially all of our current direct competitors are relatively small in terms of size of operations, revenue, number of customers and volume of parts sold, and generally lack our technological capabilities. However, our industry is evolving rapidly and other companies, including potentially larger and more established companies with developed technological capabilities, may begin to focus on low volume, high mix custom parts manufacturing. These companies could more directly compete with us, along with our existing competitors, and could also launch new products and product lines that we do not offer that may quickly gain market acceptance. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our ability to attract customers. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Highlights Our corporate responsibility and sustainability practices are built on a foundation of shared fundamental values of teamwork, trust and achievement, and help us to deliver strong financial results that create value for our Company and our shareholders in a way that respects our communities and the environments in which we operate. The Company's three core values are embodied in everything we do. Teamwork We are dedicated to the idea that a diversity of minds is better than one. Through open communication, we strive to collaborate with and include all of our colleagues to maximize our creativity and to make our good ideas great. We respect each others opinions. We help colleagues who are struggling to improve, so our success is everyones success. Trust Our integrity is built on honest answers to our customers and colleagues. It is okay to make mistakes if we use them to learn. We navigate difficult situations with compassion. The success of our Company depends on the success of our people. Achievement Speed and innovation are the cornerstones of our success. We are committed to being a solution for getting things done quickly and sustainably and a catalyst for great ideas for our shareholders, customers, the environment and each other. We are responsible for our performance, our results and our future. Workforce Demographics As of December 31, 2020 we had 2,408 full-time employees, including 1,680 full-time employees in the United States, 649 full-time employees in Europe and 79 full-time employees in Japan. We also regularly use independent contractors and other temporary employees across the organization to augment our regular staff. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain qualified, diverse and inclusive personnel. We are an equal opportunity employer, and we believe that a diverse workforce made up of people with different ideas, strengths, interests and cultural backgrounds drives employee and business success. Our workforce is composed of a diverse group of engineers, technicians and business professionals from around the world and every walk of life. In 2020, our attrition rate was 13.4%, 11.8% and 7.4% in the United States, Europe and Japan, respectively. Compensation We believe our success depends in large measure on our ability to attract, retain and motivate a broad range of employees to be successful in a dynamic and changing business environment, and that a competitive compensation program is essential to that effort. In determining employee compensation, our executive leadership team reviews and considers a number of factors, including individual and corporate performance, input from direct leaders, compensation market data from third party compensation surveys, our compensation philosophy and key principles, and the leaderships collective experience and knowledge. Annually, our executive leadership team reviews input from all leaders throughout our organization, including recommendations as to compensation levels that the leaders believe are commensurate with an individuals job performance, skills, experience, qualifications, criticality to our company and development/career opportunities. We also award long-term equity-based compensation to high performing individuals and managers who have the greatest impact on the creation of shareholder value in order to further align the interests of our employees and shareholders. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Protolabs, diversity, equity and inclusion matters. We are committed to establishing a culture where we celebrate diversity, equity and inclusivity as a way of life. Our diversity and inclusion starts at the top with our board regularly reviewing this area. We have a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Council to promote honest conversations, influence best practices and educate our employees. Our DEI Leadership Council members are employee representatives chosen from various locations to work directly with our leadership team to drive change, including within our leadership team. As we continue to grow, we will purposefully work toward cultivating a safe and inclusive environment. We strive to build diverse teams throughout the organization and empower growth for generations to come. Uniqueness defines us as a company, from our custom products to our employees. Our pledge is to establish a global culture that invites, recognizes and embraces all contributions to make a stronger US. 11 Table of Contents Health, Safety and Wellness We strive to continuously improve our employees health, safety and wellness. Our I Am safety program teaches that safety is the responsibility of every individual in our organization. We believe this program is key to our excellent safety compliance record. We know that our employees are our most valuable assets, and their safety and health are among our top priorities. In addition to concentrating on employee safety in the workplace, we also focus on the overall wellbeing of our employees. We continue to invest in a variety of employee health and wellness programs, including gym membership discounts, on-site yoga classes at certain facilities, wellness newsletters and learning sessions, and various Employee Assistance Programs. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are closely monitoring the situation and implementing additional safety measures to help ensure the well-being of our employees, customers, and suppliers; to minimize disruptions; and to provide for the safe and reliable supply of products to our customers. In accordance with the guidance provided by both the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Company has implemented safe work practices, including social distancing and work-from-home guidelines. In addition, we increased our focus on employee mental health during the pandemic by providing employees with mental health resources and Employee Assistance Programs. Education We firmly believe that the education of our employees is critical to our success. Our employees have access to a robust learning management system that offers courses on topics ranging from compliance to leadership, and communication to job-specific skills. In 2020, we provided an average of 20 formal training hours per employee. We provide an Educational Assistance Program for employees which offers financial assistance for both professional and personal development to inspire employees to continuously enhance their skills and knowledge. In order to ensure our industry remains robust, we are committed to supporting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs in the metro areas of certain cities where we have facilities. We provide STEM grants through the Protolabs Foundation of up to $200,000 annually for eligible organizations. In addition, we partner with schools, colleges and universities to provide various outreach opportunities and sponsorships. Charitable Giving We pride ourselves in being a responsible corporate citizen through our Protolabs Foundation. We support a number of charitable causes with our Employee Matching, Cool Ideas, and Major Gifts Programs. The Foundations efforts serve as a sustaining investment in the future of the communities where our employees live and work, and also a commitment to the future of the manufacturing industry. ProtoGivers, our employee led community involvement team, organizes a wide range of activities, including Red Cross blood drives, working for Habitat for Humanity projects, volunteering for Feed My Starving Children, and making financial contributions to charitable causes, many of which are matched through our Employee Giving Program. In addition to our financial support, our community outreach reflects an active effort to improve the quality of life in the regions where we have facilities. Environment We are committed to having a positive impact on the environment. We strive to maximize recycling in both our manufacturing and office facilities. In our manufacturing facilities, we recycle metal, plastic and water used throughout the manufacturing processes. In 2020, we added solar energy to our facility in Plymouth, MN, one of our larger manufacturing facilities. Finally, the Green Team, an employee-led organization, educates our employees on how they can positively impact the environment, both at work and at home. Intellectual Property We regard our patents, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property as valuable to our business and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, vendors and others to protect our proprietary rights. We register our patents, trademarks and service marks in the United States and other jurisdictions as we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2020, we owned and had applications pending for patents relating to various aspects of our quoting and manufacturing processes as follows: Jurisdiction Issued Patents Applications Pending United States 25 14 United Kingdom 2 0 Germany 0 2 Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2022 to 2038. We also owned approximately 24 registered United States trademarks or service marks as of December 31, 2020, with corresponding registered protection in Europe and Japan for the most important of these marks such as PROTO LABS, PROTOMOLD, FIRSTCUT, PROTOQUOTE, FIRSTQUOTE, PROTOFLOW and FINELINE, corresponding approved protection in Canada for PROTO LABS, FIRSTCUT and FINELINE, and corresponding registered protection in Australia, Canada and Mexico for PROTOMOLD. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate such rights. We have been subject to claims and expect to be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, we may face claims from third parties that we have infringed their patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 5540 Pioneer Creek Drive, Maple Plain, Minnesota 55359 and our telephone number is (763) 479-3680. Our website address is www.protolabs.com. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish with the SEC. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. 12 Table of Contents The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC. The SECs website is www.sec.gov. Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names of our current executive officers, their ages, titles, the year first appointed as an executive officer, and employment for the past five years: Victoria M. Holt 63 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Robert Bodor 48 Vice President/General Manager Americas John A. Way 48 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Development Arthur R. Baker III 53 Chief Technology Officer Bjoern Klaas 51 Vice President/General Manager and Managing Director Europe, Middle East and Africa Executive officers of the Company are elected at the discretion of the board of directors with no fixed terms. There are no family relationships between or among any of the executive officers or directors of the Company. In December 2020, we announced Dr. Bodor will succeed Ms. Holt as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 1, 2021. Ms. Holt is retiring after leading the company for the past seven years. Ms. Holt will remain CEO until March 1, 2021. Following the transition, Ms. Holt is expected to remain with the Company as a consultant for a period of time. Ms. Holt will also remain as a member of the Board through her current term, which expires at the Company's 2021 annual meeting. Victoria M. Holt . Ms. Holt has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since February 2014. Prior to joining Proto Labs, Ms. Holt served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Spartech Corporation, a leading producer of plastic sheet, compounds and packaging products, from September 2010 until Spartech was purchased by PolyOne Corporation in March 2013. Ms. Holt also is a member of the Board of Directors of Waste Management, Inc. and Piper Sandler Companies. Robert Bodor . Dr. Bodor has served as our Vice President/General Manager - Americas since January 2015. From July 2013 to January 2015, Dr. Bodor served as our Chief Technology Officer. From December 2012 to June 2013, Dr. Bodor served as our Director of Business Development. Prior to joining Proto Labs, from January 2011 to December 2012, Dr. Bodor held several roles at Honeywell, most recently leading SaaS business offerings for Honeywells Life Safety Division. John A. Way . Mr. Way has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Development since December 2014. From September 2012 to September 2014, Mr. Way served as Chief Financial Officer for portfolio companies of two Private Equity Firms. From October 2002 to September 2012, Mr. Way worked in senior financial positions at several divisions within UnitedHealth Group, including Chief Financial Officer of Optum-Care, Medicare Advantage and OptumHealth. Arthur R. Baker III . Dr. Baker has been our Chief Technology Officer since May 2016. Prior to joining Proto Labs, Dr. Baker served as Chief Technology Officer of PaR Systems, a robotics and specialty machine tool builder. From 2005 to 2014, Dr. Baker held multiple positions at MTS Systems, including General Manager of the Test Division, Chief Technology Officer, and Vice President of Engineering and Operations. MTS Systems was a leader in mechanical testing and simulation systems for automotive, aerospace, medical, civil-seismic and general research. Bjoern Klaas . Mr. Klaas has led our Companys business in Europe, Middle East and Africa as the Vice President and Managing Director since December 2017. Prior to joining Proto Labs, Mr. Klaas held key positions with global polymer supplier PolyOne from 2012 to 2017, most recently as its Vice President and General Manager for its ColorMatrix Group headquartered in the United States. From 2008 to 2012, Mr. Klaas worked at Colorant-Chromatics, a global leader for high temperature polymer formulations, as the General Manager for the global business. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are the significant factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Business We face significant competition and expect to face increasing competition in many aspects of our business, which could cause our operating results to suffer. The market for custom parts manufacturing is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete for customers with a wide variety of custom parts manufacturers and methods. Some of our current and potential competitors include captive in-house product lines, other custom parts manufacturers, brokers of custom parts and alternative manufacturing vendors such as those utilizing 3D printing processes. Moreover, some of our existing and potential competitors are researching, designing, developing and marketing other types of products and product lines. We also expect that future competition may arise from the development of allied or related techniques for custom parts manufacturing that are not encompassed by our patents, from the issuance of patents to other companies that may inhibit our ability to develop certain products and from improvements to existing technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may attempt to adopt and improve upon key aspects of our business model, such as development of technology that automates much of the manual labor conventionally required to quote and manufacture custom parts, implementation of interactive web-based and automated user interface and quoting systems and/or building scalable operating models specifically designed for efficient custom production. Third-party CAD software companies may develop software that mold-makers, injection molders and CNC machine shops could use to compete with our business model. Additive manufacturers may develop stronger, higher temperature resins or introduce other improvements that could more effectively compete with us on part quality. We may also, from time to time, establish alliances or relationships with other competitors or potential competitors. To the extent companies terminate such relationships and establish alliances and relationships with our competitors, our business could be harmed. Existing and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources and name recognition than us, as well as experience and expertise in intellectual property rights and operating within certain international locations, any of which may enable them to compete effectively against us. Though we plan to continue to expend resources to develop new technologies, processes and product lines, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current position or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. Our challenge in developing new products is finding product lines for which our automated quotation and manufacturing processes offer an attractive value proposition, and we may not be able to find any new product lines with potential economies of scale similar to our existing product lines. If we do not keep pace with technological change and introduce new technologies, processes and product lines, the demand for our products and product lines may decline and our operating results may suffer. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure to meet the needs of our business. A key element to our continued growth is the ability to quickly and efficiently quote an increasing number of product developer and engineer submissions across geographic regions and to manufacture the related parts. This will require us to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure to meet the needs of our business. With respect to our websites and quoting technology, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve their performance, especially during periods of heavy usage and as our solutions become more complex and our user traffic increases across geographic regions. Similarly, our manufacturing automation technology may not enable us to process the large numbers of unique designs and efficiently manufacture the related parts in a timely fashion to meet the needs of product developers and engineers as our business continues to grow. Any failure in our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology, processes and infrastructure could negatively impact our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, damage our reputation and brand, result in lost revenue, and otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may experience difficulties implementing our new e-commerce system and updates to our back-end systems. We are engaged in implementing a new e-commerce system. The e-commerce system is designed to improve our customer experience which will allow us to capitalize on the market opportunity and properly serve the long-term needs of our customers. We are updating back-end systems with standard software packages augmented by internally developed software to ensure the scalability of our architecture moving forward. These activities have required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. We may not be able to successfully implement the e-commerce system without experiencing delays, increased costs and other difficulties. If we are unable to successfully design and implement the new e-commerce system and supporting architecture as planned, our financial positions, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the new e-commerce system as planned or the back-end systems do not operate as intended, our ability to process orders, manufacture and ship parts, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business could be adversely affected. While we have invested significant resources in planning, project management, and training, additional and significant implementation issues may arise. 14 Table of Contents Economic uncertainty arising from the recent COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our business and results of operations and could continue to do so in the future. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and associated counter-acting measures implemented by governments around the world, as well as increased business uncertainty, has adversely affected our business and results of operations and could continue to do so in the future. The Company is monitoring the global COVID-19 pandemic, including any variants of the COVID-19 virus and the timing, availability and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines available in the countries in which the Company operates. The Company has taken steps to mitigate the risks to our employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The Company has been deemed an essential business and all of our global manufacturing operations have remained open. The current business environment and quickly evolving market conditions require significant management judgment to interpret and quantify the actual and potential impact on our assumptions about future financial performance and operating cash flows. To the extent that changes in the current business environment continue to impact our ability to achieve levels of forecasted operating results and cash flows, if our stock price were to trade below book value per share for an extended period of time and/or should other events occur indicating the carrying value of our assets might be impaired, we may be required to recognize impairment losses on goodwill, intangible and tangible assets. Numerous factors may cause us not to maintain the revenue growth that we have historically experienced. Although our revenue has grown over the past five years from $298.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $434.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, we may not be able to maintain our historical rate of revenue growth. We believe that our continued revenue growth will depend on many factors, a number of which are out of our control, including among others, our ability to: retain and further penetrate existing customer companies, as well as attract new customer companies; consistently execute on custom part orders in a manner that satisfies product developers and engineers needs and provides them with a superior experience; develop new technologies or manufacturing processes and broaden the range of parts we offer; successfully execute on our international strategy and expand into new geographic markets; capitalize on product developer and engineer expectations for access to comprehensive, user-friendly e-commerce capabilities 24 hours per day, 7 days per week; increase the strength and awareness of our brand across geographic regions; respond to changes in product developer and engineer needs, technology and our industry; react to challenges from existing and new competitors; and respond to an economic recession which negatively impacts manufacturers' ability to innovate and bring new products to market. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing the factors above and continuing to grow our business and revenue. 15 Table of Contents Interruptions to, or other problems with, our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability, consistency, security and availability of our websites and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes and other operations are critical to our reputation and brand, and to our ability to effectively service product developers and engineers. Any interruptions or other problems that cause any of our websites, interactive user interface or information technology systems to malfunction or be unavailable, or negatively impact our manufacturing processes or other operations, may damage our reputation and brand, result in lost revenue, cause us to incur significant costs seeking to remedy the problem and otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. A number of factors or events could cause such interruptions or problems, including among others: human and software errors, design faults, challenges associated with upgrades, changes or new facets of our business, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and security breaches, contract disputes, labor strikes and other workforce-related issues, capacity constraints due to an unusually large number of product developers and engineers accessing our websites or ordering parts at the same time, and other similar events. These risks are augmented by the fact that our customers come to us largely for our quick-turn manufacturing capabilities and that accessibility and turnaround speed are often of critical importance to these product developers and engineers. We are dependent upon our facilities through which we satisfy all of our production demands and in which we house all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites and systems as well as managerial, customer service, sales, marketing and other similar functions, and we have not identified alternatives to these facilities or established fully redundant systems in multiple locations. However, we have back-up computing systems for each of our United States, European and Japanese operations. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and therefore preventing, identifying and rectifying problems with these aspects of our systems is to a large extent outside of our control. Moreover, the business interruption insurance that we carry may not be sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business that may result from interruptions in our product lines as a result of system failures. We store confidential customer information in our systems that, if breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, may harm our reputation or brand or expose us to liability. Our system stores, processes and transmits our customers confidential information, including the intellectual property in their part designs and other sensitive data. We rely on encryption, authentication and other technologies licensed from third parties, as well as administrative and physical safeguards, to secure such confidential information. Any compromise of our information security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss, costly litigation and liability that would substantially harm our business and operating results. We may not have adequately assessed the internal and external risks posed to the security of our companys systems and information and may not have implemented adequate preventative safeguards or take adequate reactionary measures in the event of a security incident. In addition, most states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals and often state authorities of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our existing and prospective customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation and brand and could cause the loss of customers. Aspects of our business are subject to privacy, data use and data security regulations, which may impact the way we use data to target customers. Privacy and security laws and regulations may limit the use and disclosure of certain information and require us to adopt certain cybersecurity and data handling practices that may affect our ability to effectively market our services to current, past or prospective customers. In many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data security breach, and such notification requirements continue to increase in scope and cost. The changing privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhereincluding the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union, which became effective May 25, 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which was enacted on June 28, 2018 and became effective on January 1, 2020create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations, including disclosure obligations, on companies handling personal data. The impact of these continuously evolving laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the way we use data to digitally market and pursue our customers. Political and economic uncertainty arising from the outcome of the United Kingdoms referendum on its membership in the European Union could adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (UK) held a referendum in which voters approved a withdrawal from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit. The UK's withdrawal became effective on January 31, 2020. A transition period was in effect through December 31, 2020 while the UK and EU negotiated rules that will apply to their future relationship. It is possible that the level of economic activity in this region will be adversely impacted and that there will be increased regulatory and legal complexities, including those relating to tax, trade, security and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to economic uncertainty, including significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, which may adversely impact our business. To mitigate the potential impact of Brexit on the import and export of goods to and from the UK, the Company is establishing business processes with shipping entities, including obtaining Authorized Economic Operator certification. In addition, the Company is increasing inventory in the UK and EU in an effort to maintain inventory required to meet customer demand in the event of disruption in shipments. It is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Global economic conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain and could worsen. Economic concerns and other issues such as reduced access to capital for businesses may cause product developers and engineers to further delay or reduce the product development projects that our business supports. Given the continued uncertainty concerning the global economy, we face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, product developers, and engineers and other related risks to our business. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks. We have established our operations in the United States, Europe and Japan and are seeking to further expand our international operations. As of December 31, 2020, we had sold products into approximately 60 countries. In addition to English, our website is available in British English, French, German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. Our international revenue accounted for approximately 20%, 22% and 21% of our total revenue in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The future growth and profitability of our international business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Many of the following factors have adversely affected our international operations and sales to customers located outside of the United States and may again in the future: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly in new geographic locations; challenges in providing solutions across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions, political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics, and other similar outbreaks or events; economic uncertainty, including significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rates, resulting from Brexit; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; differences in product developer and engineer preferences and means of procuring parts; compliance with and changes in foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including those associated with export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions and antitrust and data privacy concerns; different, complex and changing laws governing intellectual property rights, sometimes affording companies lesser protection in certain areas; differing levels of use of the Internet or 3D CAD software; seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe and holiday season; higher costs of doing business internationally; interruptions resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; taxation; energy costs; restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; transportation delays; and increased payment risk and higher levels of payment fraud. Our business depends on product developers and engineers demand for our product lines, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and companies desire or ability to make investments in new products. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in ways that reduce demand for our product lines, disrupt our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts or otherwise negatively impact our business. Acts of terrorism, wars, public health issues and increased energy costs could disrupt commerce in ways that could impair our ability to get products to our customers and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. We have not undertaken hedging transactions to cover our foreign currency exposure, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are often made on unsecured credit terms, and a deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents If a natural or man-made disaster strikes any of our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales will decline. We manufacture all of our products in 12 manufacturing facilities, located in Maple Plain, Minnesota; Rosemount, Minnesota; Plymouth, Minnesota; Brooklyn Park, Minnesota; Cary, North Carolina; Nashua, New Hampshire (3 facilities); Telford, United Kingdom; Feldkirchen, Germany; Eschenlohe, Germany; and Zama, Kanagawa, Japan. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes, fires, hurricanes, tsunamis and nuclear disasters. In the event any of our facilities are affected by a disaster, we may: be unable to meet the shipping deadlines of our customers; experience disruptions in our ability to process submissions and generate quotations, manufacture and ship parts, provide marketing and sales support and customer service, and otherwise operate our business, any of which could negatively impact our business; be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers; need to expend significant capital and other resources to address any damage caused by the disaster; and lose customers and be unable to regain those customers. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any acquisition, strategic relationship, joint venture or investment could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Our business and our customer base have been built primarily through organic growth. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into other markets, or broaden our technology, intellectual property or product line capabilities. For example, in April 2014, we acquired FineLine to enable us to offer our customers 3D printing manufacturing processes; in October 2015, we acquired Alphaform to enable us to expand our 3D printing capabilities in Europe; in November 2017, we acquired RAPID to enable us to offer our customers Sheet Metal and expand our CNC Machining processes; and in 2021 we acquired 3D Hubs, Inc. to provide our customers with on-demand access to a global network of premium manufacturing partners. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of any future acquisitions or other similar strategic transactions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. We have limited experience engaging in these types of transactions. Such transactions may be complex, time consuming and expensive, and may present numerous challenges and risks including: an acquired company, asset or technology not furthering our business strategy as anticipated; difficulties entering and competing in new product or geographic markets and increased competition, including price competition; integration challenges; challenges in working with strategic partners and resolving any related disagreements or disputes; high valuation for a company, asset or technology, or changes in the economic or market conditions or assumptions underlying our decision to make an acquisition; significant problems or liabilities associated with acquired businesses, assets or technologies, including increased intellectual property and employment related litigation exposure; acquisition of a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in future impairment charges that would reduce our earnings; and requirements to record substantial charges and amortization expense related to certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation and other items, as well as other charges or expenses. 18 Table of Contents Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments after we have expended resources on them, as well as divert our managements attention. Any failure to successfully address these challenges or risks could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any such transaction may not be viewed favorably by investors or stakeholders. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions, relationships, joint ventures or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. Our success depends on our ability to deliver products and product lines that meet the needs of product developers and engineers and to effectively respond to changes in our industry. We derive almost all of our revenue from the manufacture and sale to product developers and engineers of quick-turn low volumes of custom parts for prototyping, support of internal manufacturing and limited quantity product release. Our business has been, and, we believe, will continue to be, affected by changes in product developer and engineering requirements and preferences, rapid technological change, new product and product line introductions and the emergence of new standards and practices, any of which could render our technology, products and product lines less attractive, uneconomical or obsolete. To the extent that our customers need for quick-turn parts decreases significantly for any reason, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our competitive position. In addition, CAD simulation and other technologies may reduce the demand for physical prototype parts. Therefore, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continually expend resources to enhance and improve our technology, product offerings and product lines. In particular, we plan to increase our research and development efforts and to continue to focus a significant portion of those efforts to further develop our technology in areas such as our interactive user interface and manufacturing processes, potentially introduce new manufacturing processes within the research and development initiative we refer to as Protoworks, and broaden the range of parts that we are able to manufacture. We believe successful execution of this part of our business plan is critical for our ability to compete in our industry and grow our business, and there are no guarantees we will be able to do so in a timely fashion, or at all. Broadening the range of parts we offer is of particular importance since limitations in manufacturability are the primary reason we are not able to fulfill many quotation requests. There are no guarantees that the resources devoted to executing on this aspect of our business plan will improve our business and operating results or result in increased demand for our products and product lines. Failures in this area could adversely impact our operating results and harm our reputation and brand. Even if we are successful in executing in these areas, our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change, and our competitors may develop new technologies, processes and product lines that are superior to ours. Our research and development costs were approximately $36.9 million, $32.7 million and $28.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and there is no guarantee that these costs will enable us to maintain or grow our revenue profitability. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion related to research and development costs. Any failure to properly meet the needs of product developers and engineers or respond to changes in our industry on a cost-effective and timely basis, or at all, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our competitive position. Our failure to meet our customers' expectations regarding quick turnaround time would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe many product developers and engineers are facing increased pressure from global competitors to be first to market with their finished products, often resulting in a need for quick turnaround of custom parts. We believe our ability to quickly quote, manufacture and ship custom parts has been an important factor in our results to date. There are no guarantees we will be able to meet product developers and engineers increasing expectations regarding quick turnaround time, especially as we increase the scope of our operations. If we fail to meet our customers expectations regarding turnaround time in any given period, our business and results of operations will likely suffer. Our failure to meet our customers price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our product lines is sensitive to price. We believe our competitive pricing has been an important factor in our results to date. Therefore, changes in our pricing strategies can have a significant impact on our business and ability to generate revenue. Many factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers price expectations in any given period, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. Our failure to meet our customers' quality specifications would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe many product developers and engineers have a need for specific quality of quick-turn, on-demand custom parts. We believe our ability to create parts with the specifications of the product developers and engineers is an important factor in our results to date. If we fail to meet our customers specifications in any given period, demand for our products and product lines could be negatively impacted and our business and results of operations could suffer. 19 Table of Contents The strength of our brand is important to our business, and any failure to maintain and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain and expand our customer base as well as further penetrate existing customers. Since our products and product lines are sold primarily through our websites, the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract new and repeat customers to our websites in order to increase business and grow our revenue. Customer awareness and the perceived value of our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts, as well as our ability to consistently provide quality custom parts within the required timeframes and positive customer experiences, which we may not do successfully. A primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of our brand, and we have incurred and plan to continue to incur substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts directed toward enhancing our brand. We have initiated marketing efforts through social media, but this method of marketing may not be successful and subjects us to a greater risk of inconsistent messaging and bad publicity. We may choose to increase our branding expense materially, but we cannot be sure that this investment will be profitable. If we are unable to successfully maintain and enhance our brand, this could have a negative impact on our business and ability to generate revenue. Our business depends in part on our ability to process a large volume of new part designs from a diverse group of product developers and engineers and successfully identify significant opportunities for our business based on those submissions. We believe the volume of new part designs we process and the size and diversity of our customer base give us valuable insight into the needs of our prospective customers. We utilize this industry knowledge to determine where we should focus our development resources. If the number of new part designs we process or the size and diversity of our customer base decrease, our ability to successfully identify significant opportunities for our business and meet the needs of product developers and engineers could be negatively impacted. In addition, even if we do continue to process a large number of new part designs and work with a significant and diverse customer base, there are no guarantees that any industry knowledge we extract from those interactions will be successfully utilized to help us identify significant business opportunities or better understand the needs of product developers and engineers. The loss of one or more key members of our management team or personnel, or our failure to attract, integrate and retain additional personnel in the future, could harm our business and negatively affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of the key members of our management team and other personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, each of whom is at will and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, could disrupt our operations and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train and motivate qualified personnel. A possible shortage of qualified individuals in the regions where we operate might require us to pay increased compensation to attract and retain key employees, thereby increasing our costs. In addition, we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous companies, many of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources and name recognition than us. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational, managerial and other requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Our failure to attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we fail to grow our business as anticipated, our net sales, gross margin and operating margin will be adversely affected. We are attempting to grow our business substantially. To this end, we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our business, including investments in our infrastructure, technology, and marketing and sales efforts. These investments include dedicated facilities expansion and increased staffing, both domestic and international. If our business does not generate the level of revenue required to support our investment, our net sales and profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation and brand may be damaged, and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Over the past several years, we have experienced rapid growth. For example, we have grown from 1,549 full-time employees as of January 1, 2016 to 2,408 full-time employees as of December 31, 2020. We have expanded internationally, including establishing manufacturing operations in Europe in 2005 and Japan in 2009. In 2014, we expanded our product lines with 3D Printing through our acquisition of FineLine. In 2015, we expanded our manufacturing operations and our 3D Printing product lines in Europe through our acquisition of Alphaform. In 2017, we expanded our product lines to include Sheet Metal through our acquisition of RAPID. We expect this growth to continue and the number of countries and facilities from which we operate to increase in the future. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated growth and expansion of our operations will require us to do, among other things, the following: enhance our operational, financial and management controls and infrastructure, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures, in particular as we continue to operate as a global organization; effectively scale our operations, including accurately predicting the need for floor space, equipment, and additional staffing; successfully identify, recruit, hire, train, develop, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees; and expand our international resources. These enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. Furthermore, our growth, combined with the geographical dispersion of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our operational, financial and management infrastructure. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and expansion. There are no guarantees we will be able to do so in an efficient or timely manner, or at all. Our failure to effectively manage growth and expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects, and reputation and brand, including impairing our ability to perform to our customers expectations. 20 Table of Contents If our present single or limited source suppliers become unavailable or inadequate, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We acquire substantially all of the manufacturing equipment and certain of our materials that are critical to the ongoing operation and future growth of our business from several third parties. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our suppliers and operate on a purchase-order basis. While most manufacturing equipment and materials for our products are available from multiple suppliers, certain of those items are only available from single or limited sources. Should any of our present single or limited source suppliers for manufacturing equipment or materials become unavailable or inadequate, or impose terms unacceptable to us such as increased pricing terms, we could be required to spend a significant amount of time and expense to develop alternate sources of supply, and we may not be successful in doing so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, may affect our supply of materials, particularly resins, from time to time, and we may purchase larger amounts of certain materials in anticipation of future shortages or increases in pricing. In addition, if we were unable to find a suitable supplier for a particular type of manufacturing equipment or material, we could be required to modify our existing business processes and offerings to accommodate the situation. As a result, the loss of a single or limited source supplier could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patents, licenses, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes globally. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents corresponding to our United States patents. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents and other intellectual property do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer product lines similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and lower revenue or gross margin, which would adversely affect our net income. We may be subject to infringement claims. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from individuals, vendors and other companies who have acquired or developed patents in the fields of injection molding, CNC machining, 3D printing, sheet metal fabrication or part production for purposes of developing competing products or for the sole purpose of asserting claims against us. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may prohibit or otherwise impair our ability to commercialize new or existing products. If we are unable to effectively defend our processes, our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Our failure to expand our intellectual property portfolio could adversely affect the growth of our business and results of operations. Expansion of our intellectual property portfolio is one of the available methods of growing our revenue and our profits. This involves a complex and costly set of activities with uncertain outcomes. Our ability to obtain patents and other intellectual property can be adversely affected by insufficient inventiveness of our employees, by changes in intellectual property laws, treaties, and regulations, and by judicial and administrative interpretations of those laws, treaties and regulations. Our ability to expand our intellectual property portfolio could also be adversely affected by the lack of valuable intellectual property for sale or license at affordable prices. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain valuable intellectual property in the jurisdictions where we and our competitors operate or that we will be able to use or license that intellectual property. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims, which could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention and damage to our business and reputation and brand. The prototype parts we manufacture and the parts we manufacture in low volumes may contain undetected defects or errors that are not discovered until after the products have been installed and used by customers. This could result in claims from customers or others, damage to our business and reputation and brand, or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We attempt to include provisions in our agreements with customers that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising from defects or errors in our products. However, it is possible that these limitations may not be effective as a result of unfavorable judicial decisions or laws enacted in the future. The sale and support of our products entails the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, damage to our business and reputation and brand, and cause us to fail to retain existing customers or to fail to attract new customers. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and product lines. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, fraud, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce, especially where these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and future profitability. We are a multinational company based in the United States and subject to tax in multiple tax jurisdictions, both domestic and abroad. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in statutory tax rates or interpretation of tax rules, including those set forth in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017, and regulations in jurisdictions in which we do business, changes in the amount of revenue or earnings in the countries with varying statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to audits and examinations of previously filed income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential impact of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there is no assurance that the final determination of any examination will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into other markets, or broaden our technology, intellectual property or product line capabilities. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. In addition, our actual or projected operating results may fail to match our past performance. These events could in turn cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: the development of new competitive systems or processes by others; the entry of new competitors into our market, whether by established companies or by new companies; changes in the size and complexity of our organization, including our international operations; levels of sales of our products and product lines to new and existing customers; the geographic distribution of our sales; changes in product developer and engineer preferences or needs; changes in the amount that we invest to develop, acquire or license new technologies and processes, which we anticipate will generally increase and may fluctuate in the future; delays between our expenditures to develop, acquire or license new technologies and processes, and the generation of sales related thereto; our ability to timely and effectively scale our business during periods of sequential quarterly or annual growth; limitations or delays in our ability to reduce our expenses during periods of declining sequential quarterly or annual revenue; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, including our responses to price competition; changes in the amount we spend in our marketing and other efforts; unexpected increases in expenses as compared to our related accounting accruals or operating plan; the volatile global economy; general economic and industry conditions that affect customer demand and product development trends; interruptions to or other problems with our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations; changes in accounting rules and tax and other laws; and plant shutdowns due to health or weather conditions. Due to all of the foregoing factors and the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. 23 Table of Contents Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we and our suppliers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our business involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by us and our suppliers for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. If we are subject to any liability as a result of activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected and our reputation and brand may be harmed. If we are unable to meet quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes for the parts we manufacture, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. As a manufacturer of CNC-machined and injection-molded custom parts, we conform to certain international standards, including International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, 9001:2015 for our injection molding facilities and the AS9001D standard for our CNC-machined facilities in Minnesota. In North Carolina, we conform to the ISO 9001:2015 standard for our plastics manufacturing and the AS9100D standard for our metals manufacturing. In New Hampshire, we conform to the ISO 9001:2015 for our sheet metal custom parts and the AS9100D standards for our CNC-machined custom parts. We also conform to international standard ISO 9001:2015 at our manufacturing facilities in Feldkirchen, Germany and Eschenlohe, Germany. Additionally, we conform to international standard ISO 13485 at our manufacturing facility in Eschenlohe, Germany and international standard ISO 14001 at our manufacturing facility in Feldkirchen, Germany. Lastly, we conform to international standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 27001 at our facilities in Japan. If any system inspection reveals that we are not in compliance with applicable standards, registrars may take action against us, including issuing a corrective action request or discontinuing our certifications. If any of these actions were to occur, it could harm our reputation as well as our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, customer invoicing, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards or electronic checks, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. In the year ended December 31, 2020, our common stock traded as high as $203.88 and as low as $63.19. The market for our common stock may become less active, liquid or orderly, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Some of the factors, many of which are outside of our control, that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; our ability to retain and attract customers and increase net sales; pricing pressures due to competition or otherwise and changes in gross margins; changes in general economic and market conditions, economic uncertainty and changes in product development activity levels; announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new product or product lines offerings or significant acquisitions; timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our offerings, systems and infrastructure; changes in key personnel; success in entry into new markets and expansion efforts; the publics response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and announcements relating to litigation; the projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; the issuance of new or updated research or reports by any securities or industry analysts who follow our common stock, changes in analysts financial estimates or ratings, and failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; changes in the market valuations of similar companies; significant lawsuits, including patent or shareholder litigation; changes in laws or regulations applicable to us; changes in accounting principles; the sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; future sales of our common stock by us or our shareholders, including sales by our officers, directors and significant shareholders; share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading levels of our shares; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. 25 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or prevent or detect misstatements in our financial statements in the future could harm our business and cause a decrease in our stock price. Ensuring that we have internal financial and accounting