Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - -Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine that an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. 19 economic conditions and the volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the companys business, financial condition and/or results of operations or on the financial condition of its customers and suppliers . The economic conditions in 2009 and the continued volatility in the financial markets both in the U.S. and in many other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to higher unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending, reduced credit availability and/or declining business and consumer confidence. Such conditions could have an impact on consumer purchases and/or retail customer purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. This could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Additionally, disruptions in the credit and other financial markets and economic conditions could, among other things, impair the financial condition of one or more of the Companys customers or suppliers, thereby increasing the risk of customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers. 20 Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Government Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 140,850 Rome, NY Government Research and development 27,300 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 21,300 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 20,500 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 14,900 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,000 Las Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Vaughn, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 8,000 Toronto, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 7,700 The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, New York, which is near Utica, located in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford, N.Y. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: RESERVED 21 PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PTC). At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 457 owners of record of the Companys Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2009 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2009 2008 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $ 3.74 $ 6.03 $ 5.57 $ 8.25 Second Quarter $ 4.84 $ 7.23 $ 6.18 $ 9.79 Third Quarter $ 5.00 $ 7.24 $ 6.02 $ 8.75 Fourth Quarter $ 5.26 $ 6.59 $ 2.75 $ 7.44 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated that no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. 22 Item 6: Selected Financial Data SELECTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA (In thousands, except per share amounts) The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Net revenues $ 223,048 $ 232,687 $ 209,484 $ 208,667 $ 205,639 Cost of sales $ 177,573 $ 175,237 $ 157,576 $ 153,158 $ 150,053 Gross margin $ 45,475 $ 57,450 $ 51,908 $ 55,509 $ 55,586 Selling, general & administrative $ 36,207 $ 36,790 $ 37,517 $ 33,440 $ 30,867 (Provision) benefit for income taxes $ 1,314 $ (1,358 ) $ 1,497 $ (3,146 ) $ (5,358 ) Net income (loss) $ (5,186 ) $ 2,217 $ (2,708 ) $ 5,721 $ 9,432 Basic earnings (loss) per share $ (.36 ) $ .15 $ (.19 ) $ .40 $ .68 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ (.36 ) $ .15 $ (.19 ) $ .39 $ .64 The selected consolidated financial statement data summarized above is reflective of certain business acquisitions. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA (In thousands) December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Current assets $ 92,916 $ 110,038 $ 97,879 $ 95,453 $ 84,492 Current liabilities $ 46,201 $ 59,969 $ 52,284 $ 46,473 $ 43,661 Total assets $ 136,103 $ 153,988 $ 146,518 $ 142,258 $ 125,149 Long-term debt $ 4,455 $ 5,852 $ 6,932 $ 7,708 $ 1,948 Shareholders equity $ 83,235 $ 86,257 $ 84,987 $ 86,083 $ 78,492 The selected consolidated financial statement data summarized above is reflective of certain business acquisitions. 23 Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs hospitality technology solutions feature software, hardware and professional/lifecycle support services to several industries including: restaurants, hotels/resorts/spas, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. In addition the Company provides applied technology and technical outsourcing services to the Federal Government and its agencies, primarily to the Department of Defense. PAR also has an emerging technology business in logistics management. The Company utilizes satellite locating technology and communicates the position and condition of cargo through the existing cellular network. PAR has increased their value add to customers by focusing on the cold chain cargo transportation business and can also monitor the environmental condition within refrigerated trailers. 24 The Companys hospitality technology products are used in several applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition in all of its markets (restaurants, hotels, etc.) and competes primarily on the basis of product design/features/functions, product quality/reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global reach as a technology provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage as it allows the Company to provide innovative solutions, with significant global deployment capability, to its multinational customers like McDonalds, Yum! Brands, CKE Restaurants and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. PARs strategy is to provide complete integrated technology systems and services with an excellent level of customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology that meets and exceeds our customers requirements and also has high probability for broader market appeal and success. PARs model focuses upon operating efficiencies and controlling costs. This is achieved through investment in modern production technologies, outsourcing of certain initiatives and by managing purchasing processes and functions. The Company focuses on three distinct areas in its Hospitality segment. First, the Company is making significant investments in developing next generation software for its restaurant customers. Second, the Company continues to work on building a more robust and further reaching distribution channel. Third, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure that initially focuses on the Asia/Pacific rim due to the new restaurant growth and concentration of PARs customers in that region. Approximately 34% of the Companys revenues are generated in our Government Business segment. This segment is comprised of two subsidiaries: PAR Government Systems Corporation and Rome Research Corporation. Through these government contractors, the Company provides IT and communications support services to the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army. PAR also offers its services to several non-military U.S. federal agencies by providing applied technology services including radar, image and signal processing, and geospatial services and products. The Companys Government performance rating of excellence allows it to consistently win add-on and renewal business, and build long-term client-vendor relationships. PAR can provide its clients the technical expertise necessary to operate and maintain complex technology systems utilized by government agencies. 25 The Company will continue to leverage its core technical capabilities and performance into related technical areas and an expanding customer base. The Company will seek to accelerate this growth through strategic acquisitions of businesses that broaden the Companys technology and/or business base. Summary The Company believes it is and can continue to be successful in its three businesses, Hospitality, Government I/T Services and Logistics Management Systems; due to its capabilities and industry expertise. The majority of the Companys business is in the quick-serve restaurant sector of the hospitality market. In regards to the current economic landscape, PAR believes that the quick-serve restaurant sector will remain strong, a direct reflection of the value and convenience PARs large quick-service customers provide. Throughout 2009, the global economic environment was challenging for PAR. However the Company sees improving stability in our markets and is anticipating a much improved 2010 due to large technology initiatives being undertaken by its largest hospitality customers. The Company also took significant steps in 2009 with certain organizational changes that will deliver meaningful cost savings in 2010. With these cost reductions, coupled with expected increasing sales, the Company foresees improvement in profitability in 2010. PARs fundamental long-term strategy remains intact and has not been affected by the cost reductions taken during this period. The smaller sectors of the Companys Hospitality segment are its hotel, resort and spa customers as well as its distribution channel which targets smaller independent restaurants. These sectors are being impacted by the current economic uncertainty and, as a result, are experiencing a slower than normal business cycle. It has been the Companys experience that their Government I/T business is resistant to economic cycles. Clearly PARs I/T outsourcing business focuses on cost-effective operations of technology and telecommunication facilities which must function independent of economic cycles. Additionally, it is the Companys experience that its Government research and development spending has only fluctuated modestly during times of military cutbacks. As an emerging business, the Companys Logistics Management business continues to grow even during this period of economic uncertainty as we experience the acceleration of early adoption of our cold chain technology. 26 Results of Operations 2009 Compared to 2008 The Company reported revenues of $223 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 4% from the $232.7 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Companys net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $5.2 million, or $0.36 loss per diluted share, compared to a net income of $2.2 million, or $0.15 income per diluted share for the same period in 2008. The results of 2009 include pre-tax non-recurring charges of $6.5 million. Of this amount, approximately $5.3 million was a non-cash charge related to the write-down of certain inventory associated with discontinued products. The remaining $1.2 million cash charge was related to personnel actions. In addition to the above changes, the 2009 results include a charge of $1.4 million related to the establishment of a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $72.6 million, a decrease of 11% from the $81.8 million recorded in 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in sales to certain restaurant concepts as new store rollouts that occurred in 2008 did not recur in 2009, partially offset by an increase in sales to the Companys new account, Subway. In addition, sales in the Companys luxury hotel resort and spa software business experienced a decline in 2009. These decreases were further offset by an increase in sales of the Companys Logistics Management products to several commercial customers. Customer service revenues primarily include installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $74 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a 2% decrease from $75.4 million reported for the same period in 2008. This decrease is mostly attributable to a decrease in installation revenue which is directly related to the total product revenue discussed above. These decreases were partially offset by increases in revenue associated with the Companys depot service center as well as service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Contract revenues were $76.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of 1% when compared to the $75.5 million recorded in the same period in 2008. This increase is the result of various new contract wins, partially offset by the completion of multiple contracts during 2009. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2009 were 32.5%, a decrease from the 39.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decline is primarily due to a shift in product mix, noting a higher content of hardware revenue versus software revenue as compared to total product revenue in 2009 when compared to 2008. The lower software revenue was attributable to a drop in table service revenue as the Company fulfilled the requirements of a major customer in 2008 that did not recur in 2009. Lastly, 2009 product margin was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $944,000 recorded relative to a non-recurring write-down of inventory associated with discontinued product lines due to a change in customer requirements. 27 Customer service margins were 23.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 27.9% for the same period in 2008. This decrease was the result of a non-recurring charge of $4.5 million recorded primarily associated with the write down of service inventory related to discontinued products. This write-down was recorded in 2009 as a response to certain major customers announcing their initiative to accelerate planned upgrades of their POS systems. Exclusive of the aforementioned charge, service margins improved from 2008 as a result of cost reductions and increases in depot service revenue. Contract margins were 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009 unchanged from the 5.5% for the same period in 2008. The most significant components of contract costs in 2009 and 2008 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2009, labor and fringe benefits were $52.4 million or 73% of contract costs compared to $53.7 million or 75% of contract costs for the same period in 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $36.2 million, a decrease of 2% from the $36.8 million expense for the same period in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in sales personnel in the Companys restaurant and hotel and spa businesses, partially offset by increases in the Companys Logistics Management business as well as non-recurring costs of $500,000 associated with personnel actions related to cost reduction initiatives executed during 2009. Research and development expenses were $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 7% from the $15.3 million recorded in 2008. This decline was primarily attributable to cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships, which was partially offset by the Companys continued investment in its Logistics Management business as well as non-recurring costs of $500,000 associated with personnel actions related to cost reduction initiatives executed during 2009. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.5 million for 2008. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2009. 28 Other income, net, was $165,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $921,000 for the same period in 2008. Other income primarily includes rental income and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in foreign currency gains in 2009 when compared to 2008 as well as a decrease in rental income resulting from decreased occupancy in 2009 when compared to 2008. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $400,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $1.2 million in 2008. The Company experienced lower average borrowings and a lower average borrowing rate in 2009 when compared to 2008. The Company also recognized a decrease in interest expense of $146,000 related to its interest rate swap agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Companys effective income tax benefit was 20.2%, compared to an effective income tax rate of 38% in 2008. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2009 was primarily the result of the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, which decreased the tax benefit. This valuation allowance was established as the Company determined that its foreign tax credit carryforwards may not be fully realized. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2008 was primarily due to the state income taxes and various nondeductible expenses partially offset by the research and experimental tax credit. Results of Operations 2008 Compared to 2007 The Company reported revenues of $232.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 11% from the $209.5 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $2.2 million, or $.15 diluted net earnings per share, compared to a net loss of $2.7 million and $.19 diluted net loss per share for the same period in 2007. Product revenues from the Companys Hospitality segment were $81.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 6% from the $77.1 million recorded in 2007. This was primarily due to a $7.2 million increase in domestic product sales. The Company recorded increased revenues to several major accounts including Yum! Brands, Catalina, CKE and McDonalds. This increase was partially offset by a $2.5 million decline in international revenue. This decrease was primarily due to the timing of sales to McDonalds in certain regions. 29 Customer service revenues are also generated by the Companys Hospitality segment. The Companys service offerings include installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $75.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a 12% increase from $67.4 million reported for the same period in 2007. Approximately $3.3 million of this growth was related to a major service initiative with a large restaurant customer. Also contributing to the growth was an increase in professional service and software maintenance contracts. Contract revenues from the Companys Government segment were $75.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 16% when compared to the $65 million recorded in the same period in 2007. The primary factor contributing to the growth was a $7.4 million increase in revenue from the Companys information technology outsourcing contracts for facility operations at critical U.S. Department of Defense telecommunication sites across the globe. These outsourcing operations provided by the Company directly support U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army operations as they seek to convert their military information technology communications facilities into contractor-run operations and to meet new requirements with contractor support. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2008 were 39.5%, a decrease of 130 basis points from the 40.8% for the year ended December 31, 2007. This decline is primarily due to lower margins realized on a special initiative with a major restaurant customer involving third party peripheral devices. Also, contributing to the decrease was a shift in product mix, and a stronger dollar. Customer Service margins were 27.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 24.2% for the same period in 2007. This increase was primarily due to increases in professional services and software maintenance revenues, a special initiative with a major customer and cost reductions made during 2008. Contract margins were 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008 versus 6.4% for the same period in 2007. The decrease was attributable to start up costs incurred in 2008 on a new Information Technology outsourcing contract with the Department of Defense. The most significant components of contract costs in 2008 and 2007 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2008, labor and fringe benefits were $53.7 million or 75% of contract costs compared to $48.4 million or 79% of contract costs for the same period in 2007. 30 Selling, general and administrative expenses are virtually all related to the Companys Hospitality segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $36.8 million, a decrease of 2% from the $37.5 million expense for the same period in 2007. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in bad debt expense and certain cost reductions. This was partially offset by the Companys continued investment into expanding its distribution channels. Research and development expenses relate primarily to the Companys Hospitality segment. Research and development expenses were $15.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease of 11% from the $17.2 million recorded in 2007. This decline was primarily attributable to cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $1.6 million for 2007. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2008. Other income, net, was $921,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $1.2 million for the same period in 2007. Other income primarily includes rental income and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease is primarily due to a decline in foreign currency gains in 2008 compared to 2007. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to $1.1 million in 2007. The Company experienced higher average borrowings in 2008 when compared to 2007. The Company also recognized an increase in interest expense related to its interest rate swap agreement that was entered into in September 2007. This was partially offset by a lower borrowing interest rate in 2008 compared to 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Companys effective income tax rate was 38%, compared to a benefit of 35.6% in 2007. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2008 was primarily due to the state income taxes and various nondeductible expenses partially offset by the research and experimental tax credit. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2007 was primarily due to the state income tax benefits resulting from the pretax loss and certain tax credits, offset by various nondeductible expenses which decreased the tax benefit. 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and lines of credit with various banks. Cash provided by operations was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to cash used in operations of $2.3 million for 2008. In 2009, cash benefited primarily by the reduction in accounts receivable, partially offset by the reduction in customer deposits. In 2008, cash was impacted primarily by the growth in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by an increase in customer deposits. Cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus $424,000 for the same period in 2008. In 2009, capital expenditures were $1.3 million and were primarily for manufacturing and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $845,000 in 2009. The amount paid as a contingent purchase price under prior years acquisitions totaled $54,000 in 2009. In 2008, capital expenditures were $1 million and were primarily for manufacturing and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $797,000 in 2008. In 2008, the Company also received $1.6 million from the voluntary conversion of a Company-owned life insurance policy. The amount paid as a contingent purchase price under prior years acquisitions totaled $156,000 in 2008. Cash used in financing activities was $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus cash provided by financing of $6.1 million in 2008. In 2009, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $6.8 million and decreased its long-term debt by $1.1 million. The Company also benefited $547,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2008, the Company increased its short-term bank borrowings by $6.3 million and decreased its long-term debt by $773,000. The Company also benefited $529,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. The Company has an existing credit agreement containing a borrowing availability up to $20 million in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.5% at December 31, 2009) or at the banks prime lending rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (3.25% at December 31, 2009). This agreement expires in June 2011. At December 31, 2009, there was $2 million outstanding under this agreement. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.2% during 2009. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. 32 In January 2010, this agreement was amended to exclude specific non-recurring charges recorded by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2009 from all debt covenant calculations in 2009 and 2010. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at December 31, 2009. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. In 2006, the Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, executed as an amendment to one of its then bank line of credit agreements, in connection with a business acquisition. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.5% at December 31, 2009) or at the banks prime lending rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (3.25% at December 31, 2009). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. In September 2007, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At December 31, 2009, the notional principal amount totaled $4.2 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment within the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $146,000 recorded as a reduction to interest expense. The adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $234,000 and $154,000, respectively, and were recorded as additional interest expense. The Company has a $1,659,000 mortgage collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. The Company also leases office space in several locations for varying terms. 33 The Companys future principal payments under its term loan, mortgage and office leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Long-term debt obligations $ 5,859 $ 1,404 $ 3,205 $ 316 $ 934 Operating lease 10,001 2,499 3,670 2,761 1,071 Total $ 15,860 $ 3,903 $ 6,875 $ 3,077 $ 2,005 During fiscal year 2010, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will be approximately $1 to $2 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and the actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 34 Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Product revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment as well as sales of hardware in support of its Logistics Management business. Product revenues include both hardware and software sales. The Company also records service revenues relating to its standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment as well as service related to its Logistics Management business. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company), when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For software sales where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. 35 Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, support maintenance, and field and depot repair. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. The individual product and service offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual product or service sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, the units of accounting are based on each individual product and service sold, and revenue is allocated to each element based on vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE of fair value for each individual product and service is based on separate individual prices of these products and services. The sales price used to establish fair value is the sales price of the element when it is sold individually in a separate arrangement and not as a separate element in a multiple element arrangement. Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. 36 Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. Software development costs incurred after establishing technological feasibility are capitalized and amortized over the estimated economic life when the product is available for general release to customers. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two core business segments, Hospitality and Government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company are: Restaurant, Hotel/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. 37 Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. The Company utilizes three methodologies in performing their goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches, namely the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The discounted cash flow method was weighted 80% in the fair value calculation, while the public company method and quoted price method were weighted each 10% of the fair value calculation. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are consistent with those used in the prior year. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future benefits at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model include projected financial operating results, long term growth rate ranging from 4% to 5% (beyond 5 years) and discount rates ranging from 15% to 21%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate that was based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. 38 The market approach is a general way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparables. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Restaurant, Hotel/Spa, and Government reporting units is $12 million, $13.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair values of the Restaurant and Hotel / Spa reporting units exceed their carrying values by 11% and 12%, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Restaurant: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions that it believes are generally materially consistent with historical results. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. 39 The Company has utilized revenue growth estimates ranging from approximately 5% to 11% annually over the next five years, with the exception of one year which utilized a growth estimate of 17.6%. Estimates for that specific year were based primarily on the expectation of a significant technology upgrade by a major customer during that year. These revenue growth rates trend to a long term growth rate of 5%. The Companys revenue estimates are based primarily on this aforementioned technology upgrade, as well as on the Companys continued penetration into new accounts and markets. Although the revenue growth rates used in the Companys estimates are higher than the actual growth rate achieved in its most recently completed fiscal year, the Company believes that these rates are appropriate based on information it has received from its customers relative to their planned capital investments. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates that are materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved and reflect the Companys planned execution of strategic gross margin improvement initiatives in future periods beginning in fiscal year 2010. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for these reporting units are consistent with actual historical amounts. The Company believes the utilization of actual historical results is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of this reporting unit and has no reason to anticipate that future results will vary significantly from historical results. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 21% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was assessed based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. Hotel / Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions that it believes are generally materially consistent with historical results. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized an annual revenue growth rate of approximately 5% per year, including a long term growth rate of 5%. The revenue assumptions utilized in the projection are materially consistent with actual revenue recorded by this reporting unit during recent fiscal years and the Company believes that the growth rates used are conservative based on its current strategy of increased entrance into new Hotel/Spa markets. 40 The Company has utilized gross margin estimates that are materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are consistent with actual historical amounts. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Spa reporting unit and has no reason to anticipate that future results will vary significantly from historical results. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 16% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The economic conditions throughout 2009, both in the U.S. and in many other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to higher unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending, reduced credit availability and/or declining business and consumer confidence. Such conditions could have an impact on the markets in which the Companys customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value remeasurement particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth and gross margin improvements indicated in the preceding paragraphs. This remeasurement may result in an impairment charge in future periods. The Company has qualitatively reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company including a traditional control premium. Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. 41 New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 42