Item 2: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and professional/lifecycle support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. The Companys Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal, state, and local governmental organizations as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense, delivering comprehensive and sophisticated support for communication and network operations worldwide. Lastly, PARs Logistics Management segment provides innovative asset monitoring and tracking systems for customers in the road, rail, and transit markets by providing advanced integrated solutions for all types of refrigerated and dry assets. 15 The Companys products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing primarily on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global infrastructure and reach as a technology solutions provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide innovative systems, with significant global deployment capability, to its multinational customers such as McDonalds, Yum! Brands, Subway, Baskin-Robbins, CKE Restaurants and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. PARs continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with excellent customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding three distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is making significant investments in developing next generation software for its luxury hotel and restaurant markets. Second, the Company continues to work on building a more robust and extensive distribution channel. Lastly, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. In regards to the current economic conditions, the Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) market continues to perform well for the large international companies; however, the Company has seen an impact on the regional QSR organizations whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in specific domestic regions. These conditions have had and could continue to have an impact on the markets in which the Company's customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. The Company is currently assisting one of its large international customers as they execute an aggressive upgrade schedule to their in-store technology. In addition, the Company sees an improvement in the pipeline of business with its second tier customers. Approximately 29% of the Companys revenues are generated by its government business. The operational performance of PARs Government segment translates into consistently winning new contracts, extended contracts, and renewed contracts. PAR provides its clients the technical expertise necessary to operate and maintain complex technology systems utilized by government organizations. The Company experienced lower than expected revenues during the first six months of 2011 as a result of delays in new contract starts due to the Congressional impasse on the Government Fiscal Year 2011 budget and lower pass-though revenues. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense spending for the balance of the calendar year may impact the growth of this business segment on a year-over-year basis. 16 PARs Logistics Management business continues to add new accounts. Although the Company is experiencing the difficulties of an extended adoption phase of its technology by the transport industry, it continues to expand its customer base in the refrigerated and dry van markets. As the market recognizes the value proposition associated with the real time use of location and environmental information in both asset management and cargo quality assurance, the Company believes it is well positioned in this emerging market. As part of its quarterly financial close process, the Company determined that as a result of the decline in the stock price that occurred during the second quarter, a goodwill impairment triggering event had occurred. The fair value of the Companys common shares declined from $4.60 per share at April 1, 2011 to $3.83 per share at June 30, 2011, resulting in the Company no longer being able to reconcile the aggregate fair value of its reporting units to its market capitalization after consideration of a reasonable control premium. Although there was no significant adverse change to the long term financial outlook of any of its businesses, the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred and as a result, performed additional analyses over the valuation of its reporting units in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recording a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill. In addition, as part of this goodwill triggering event assessment, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. The Company utilizes three methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches, namely the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The discounted cash flow method was weighted 80% in the fair value calculation, while the public company method and quoted price method were weighted each at 10% of the fair value calculation. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Companys annual impairment test. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future benefits at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. 17 Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model include projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate ranging from 4% to 5% (beyond 5 years) and discount rates ranging from 17% to 27%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate, could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate that was based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The financial projections used within the discounted cash flow models were generally consistent with those used as part of the Companys fiscal year 2010 goodwill impairment test performed within the fourth quarter of 2010. Furthermore, the long term growth rates remained constant, reflective of the Companys belief that there was no adverse change to the long term financial outlook of its reporting units. However, given the decline in the Companys stock price experienced during the second quarter, the Company determined it prudent to utilize higher discount rates in its valuation, which the Company believes is reflective of the perceived market risk that is reducing the fair value of the Companys stock. The Company believes that the assumptions used within its discounted cash flow estimates were appropriate in the circumstances. The market approach is a general way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanis of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. 18 The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. After recording the goodwill impairment charge, the Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company including a control premium that is consistent with the premium observed in prior annual impairment tests. Results of Operations Three Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 The Company reported revenues of $58.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, an increase of 4% from the $56.2 million reported for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The Companys net loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 was $17.8 million, or $1.19 loss per diluted share, compared to a net income of $849,000 or $0.06 earnings per diluted share for the same period in 2010. The results of 2011include pre-tax non-recurring charges of $29.4 million. Of this amount, $20.8 million was a non-cash charge related to the impairment of the Companys goodwill and intangible assets. The remaining $8.6 million in charges was related to the write-down of certain inventory associated with discontinued products, as well as severance and office closure costs. Product revenues were $24 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, an increase of 4 % from the $23.1 million recorded in 2010. This increase was the result of a 34% increase in international revenues primarily due to sales to McDonalds in Europe and China. Also contributing to the increases were domestic sales to Baskin-Robbins and a 12% increase in sales associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in domestic sales to McDonalds as their significant upgrade programs is nearing completion. Customer service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $18 million for the quarter June 30, 2011, an increase of 7% from the $16.9 million reported for the same period in 2010. This increase is driven by higher installation and contract revenues associated with new restaurant upgrades, partially offset by a decline in depot service revenue as a consequence of the aforementioned upgrades. Lastly, service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business increased 47% as it continues to grow its overall installation base. 19 Contract revenues were $16.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, flat from the same period in 2010. This consistency reflects the slow pace at which funding has been authorized for new and renewal contracts. Product margins for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 were 37.4 %, an increase from 35% for the same period in 2010. This improvement was primarily the result of an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold relative to related peripherals as well as various cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts implemented across the Companys hospitality businesses. Lastly, product margins were favorably impacted by a 23% increase in software sales over the quarter driven by an increase in sales to Baskin-Robbins. Customer service margins were a negative 14.7% for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, compared to 35.4% for the same period in 2010. This decrease was primarily the result of a charge of $7.7 million recorded associated with the write down of service parts inventory related to discontinued products. This charge was recorded as the result of an acceleration of technology upgrade programs by two of the Companys major customers and an overall change in customer requirements as a result of these upgrades. As part of these programs, the Companys customers were required to upgrade their existing hardware in support of new software utilized at their respective restaurants. Service margin was also adversely impacted by a reduction in depot service revenue, which generally earns higher margin than other sources of service revenue. Contract margins were 5.7% for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, compared to 6.5% for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to less favorable contract mix as compared to the previous period. The most significant components of contract costs in 2011 and 2010 were labor and fringe benefits. For the second quarter of 2011, labor and fringe benefits were $11.7 million or 76% of contract costs compared to $11.9 million or 78% of contract costs for the same period in 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 were $10.2 million, an increase from $9.8 million for the same period in 2010. Total expense for 2011 included non-recurring charges of $600,000 related to severance and office closure as the Company restructures its operations. Exclusive of the aforementioned charges, selling, general and administrative expenses would have been lower than 2010 as the Company executes on various cost reduction strategies. Research and development expenses were $3.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, a decrease from the $4.3 million for the same period in 2010. This decrease was associated with the Company capitalizing the development costs associated with its next generation Hospitality software platforms. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in expense associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. 20 The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill, which was the result of the reduction in PARs stock price through the second quarter. As a result of this reduction, the Company determined an impairment of goodwill had occurred and in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recorded the aforementioned charge. This Company does not believe there has been an adverse change to the long term outlook of its businesses. In addition to the aforementioned goodwill impairment charge, as part of this analysis, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $205,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, compared to $235,000 for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2010. Other expense, net was $157,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 compared to other income, net of $278,000 for the same period in 2010. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease is primarily attributable to foreign currency losses incurred on the closure of certain international offices during the period. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $67,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 as compared to $71,000 for the same period in 2010. The decrease is due to a lower borrowing rate, combined with a favorable fair value adjustment on its interest rate swap. These decreases were partially offset by a higher average borrowing in 2011 versus 2010. For the quarter ended June 30, 2011, the Companys expected effective income tax benefit based on projected pre-tax loss was 36.1%. This compares to an expected effective income tax rate of 11.5% for the same quarter in 2010. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2011 was primarily due to the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, partially offset by research credits generated. The valuation allowance was established as the Company determined that certain state net operating loss carryforwards and current foreign tax credits generated may not be fully realized. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 was primarily due to the reversal of a valuation allowance of $230,000 on certain deferred tax assets as the result of the Companys tax planning strategies and research credits generated. 21 Results of Operations Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 The Company reported revenues of $114.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, realatively flat from the $114.3 million reported for the same period in 2010. The Companys net loss for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was $17.4 million, or $1.17 loss per diluted share, compared to a net income of $1.4 million or $0.10 earnings per diluted share for the same period in 2010. The results of 2011 include pre-tax charges of $29.4 million. Of this amount, $20.8 million was a non-cash charge related to the impairment of the Companys goodwill and intangible assets. The remaining $8.6 million in charges was related to the write-down of certain inventory associated with discontinued products, as well severance and office closure costs. Product revenues were $46.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, an increase of 6% from the $44.3 million recorded in 2010. This increase was the result of a 26% increase in international revenues primarily due to sales to McDonalds in Europe and China. Also contributing to the increases were domestic sales to Baskin-Robbins, Subway, YUM! Brands, and a 44% increase in sales associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in domestic sales to McDonalds as their significant upgrade programs is nearing completion. Customer service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $34.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, a decrease of 5% from the $36.1 million reported for the same period in 2010. This decrease is mostly associated with a decrease in installation revenue, specifically with McDonalds, as they continue to utilize other systems integrators to execute on their aggressive technology upgrade objective. This decrease was partially offset by increases in field service revenue associated with the Companys Restaurant business, as well as an increase in service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. which increased 35% year over year. Contract revenues were $33.1 million for the six months ended, June 30, 2011, a decrease of 2% when compared to the $33.9 million for the same period in 2010. This decrease reflects the slow pace at which funding has been authorized for new and renewal contracts. Product margins for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were 37.9%, an increase from 33.7% for the same period in 2010. This improvement was primarily the result of an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold relative to related peripherals as well as various cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts implemented across the Companys hospitality businesses. Lastly, product margins were favorably impacted by a 19% increase in software sales over the quarter driven by an increase in sales to Baskin-Robbins. 22 Customer service margins were 7.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2011, compared to 33.7% for the same period in 2010. This decrease was primarily the result of a charge of $7.7 million recorded associated with the write down of service parts inventory related to discontinued products. This charge was recorded as the result of an acceleration of technology upgrade programs by two of the Companys major customers and an overall change in customer requirements as a result of these upgrades. As part of these programs, the Companys customers were required to upgrade their existing hardware in support of new software utilized at their respective restaurants. Contract margins were 5.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2011, compared to 6.1% for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to less favorable contract mix as compared to the previous period. The most significant components of contract costs in 2011 and 2010 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2011, labor and fringe benefits were $24.2 million or 78% of contract costs compared to $25 million or 78% of contract costs for the same period in 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were $20.1 million, an increase from the $19.3 million for the same period in 2010. Total expense for 2011 included non-recurring charges of $600,000 related to severance and office closure as the Company restructures its operations. Exclusive of the aforementioned charges, selling, general and administrative expenses were relatively flat as compared to the same period in 2010 reflective of an increase in sales and marketing expenses associated with its Hospitality businesses, offset by cost reductions executed at its other businesses. Research and development expenses were $7.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, an increase from $7.8 million for the same period in 2010. The increase was the result of increased research and development expenditures in support of the Companys next generation software platforms for its Hospitality businesses, partially offset by the capitalization of development costs associated with the aforementioned platforms. Additionally, part of this increase is associated with the growth of the Companys Logistics Management business. The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill, which was the result of the reduction in PARs stock price through the second quarter. As a result of this reduction, the Company determined an impairment of goodwill had occurred and in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recorded the aforementioned charge. This Company does not believe there has been an adverse change to the long term outlook of its businesses. In addition to the aforementioned goodwill impairment charge, as part of this analysis, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. 23 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $410,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011, compared to $469,000 for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2010. Other expense, net, was $129,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 compared to other income, net of $419,000 for the same period in 2010. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease is primarily attributable to foreign currency losses incurred on the closure of certain international offices during the period. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $115,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to $142,000 for the same period in 2010. The decrease is due to a lower borrowing rate, combined with a favorable fair value adjustment on its interest rate swap. These decreases were partially offset by a higher average borrowing in 2011 versus 2010. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, the Companys expected effective income tax benefit based on projected pre-tax loss was 36 %. This compares to an expected income tax rate of 24.7% for the same period in 2010. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2011 was primarily due to the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, partially offset by research credits. The valuation allowance was established as the Company determined that certain state net operating loss carryforwards and current foreign tax credits generated may not be fully realized. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 was primarily due to the reversal of a valuation allowance of $230,000 on certain deferred tax assets as the result of the Companys tax planning strategies and research credits generated. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash provided by operations was $68,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 compared to $4.4 million for the same period in 2010. In 2011, cash was used primarily to increase inventory in anticipation of future orders as well as to decrease accounts payable due to the timing of vendor payments. This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of collections of advanced service and maintenance contract billings. In 2010, cash was generated primarily by collections of accounts receivable due to the timing of collections of advance service and maintenance billings, as well as an increase in accounts payable due to the timing of vendor payments. These increases were partially offset by an increase in inventory in support of forecast requirements. 24 Cash used in investing activities was $5.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 versus $2.7 million for the same period in 2010. In 2011, capital expenditures were $560,000 and were primarily for manufacturing, office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $5.1 million and was associated with the Companys next generation Hospitality software platforms. In 2010, capital expenditures were $2.3 million and were primarily related to the Companys acquisition of certain technology components to compliment its next generation enterprise solution for its Restaurant business. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $291,000 in 2010. Cash provided by financing activities was $2.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 versus cash used of $1.6 million in 2010. In 2011, the Company increased its short-term borrowings by $3 million in support of its operating cash needs, and decreased its long-term debt by $818,000. The Company also benefited $132,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2010, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $1.3 million, decreased its long-term debt by $663,000 and also benefited $345,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. On June 6, 2011, the Company executed a new credit agreement with its lenders of its credit facility. This credit facility provides the Company borrowing availability up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.21% at June 30, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at June 30, 2011). This agreement expires in June 2014. At June 30, 2011, the Company had $3 million outstanding under this agreement. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.5% during the second quarter of 2011. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In July 2011, this agreement was amended to exclude specific non-recurring charges recorded by the Company in the second quarter of 2011 from all debt covenant calculations in 2011 and through June 30, 2012. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at June 30, 2011. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, in connection with a prior business acquisition. This loan is part of its existing credit facility and provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread ( 1.21% at June 30, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at June 30, 2011). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. 25 The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At June 30, 2011, the notional principal amount totaled $2.2 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 were $27,000 and $58,000, respectively, and were recorded as decreases to interest expense. The Company has a $1.5 million mortgage, collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. During fiscal year 2011, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will be approximately $7 to $8 million. The Company does not enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and the actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash and line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 26 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010, FASB issued ASU 2010-28 IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350) (ASU 2010-28). Topic 350 is amended to clarify the requirement to test for impairment of goodwill. Topic 350 has required that goodwill be tested for impairment if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Under ASU 2010-28, when the carrying amount of a reporting unit is zero or negative, goodwill of that reporting unit shall be tested for impairment on an annual or interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances exist that indicate that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. The modifications to ASC Topic 350 resulting from the issuance of ASU 2010-28 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and interim periods within those years. The adoption of this standard did not impact the consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29 Business Combinations (Topic 805) Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations (ASU 2010-29). This standard update clarifies that, when presenting comparative financial statements, SEC registrants should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the current period business combinations had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The update also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. ASU 2010-29 is effective prospectively for material (either on an individual or aggregate basis) business combinations entered into in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements as there were no business combinations in the current period. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. ASU No. 2009-14 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. Entities that sell joint hardware and software products that meet this scope exception will be required to follow the guidance of ASU No. 2009-13. ASU No. 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 27 In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. ASU No. 2009-13 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 605-25 to require an entity to use an estimated selling price when vendor specific objective evidence or acceptable third party evidence does not exist for any products or services included in a multiple element arrangement. The arrangement consideration should be allocated among the products and services based upon their relative selling prices, thus eliminating the use of the residual method of allocation. ASU No. 2009-13 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding significant judgments made and changes in applying this guidance. ASU No. 2009-13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income. This ASU intends to enhance comparability and transparency of other comprehensive income components. The guidance provides an option to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. This ASU eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income components as part of the statement of changes in shareowners equity. The provisions of this ASU will be applied retrospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this ASU. Critical Accounting Policies In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, we disclose accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of our critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 28