Item 2 : Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "will," or "expect", we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot provide assurances that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. PARs Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. PARs products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functions, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. PAR conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 13 Table of Contents Within the Hospitality businesses PAR continues to focus on building a diversified customer base through our investment in new hardware, software and solution offerings. This diversification is a key component to PAR building recurring and subscription based revenue that will result in a more consistent financial performance for PAR. One of PARs primary initiatives to achieve diversification is the continued penetration of the grocery and retail market through deployments of the Companys SureCheck product for food safety and task management applications. Entering these markets allows PAR to be more versatile within its customer base, which helps in mitigating revenue volatility that may be created given the timing of product deployments with major Restaurant customers. In addition, PAR continues to expand its worldwide third-party distribution channels through the addition of new partners and leveraging current relationships. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies, despite worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty. However, the Company has seen an impact of these economic conditions on smaller, regional QSR organizations, whose business is slowing because of the continued lack of consumer confidence in certain regions. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The Company is continues to assess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. The Hotel/Resort/Spa technology business within the Hospitality segment provides PAR with an opportunity to grow recurring software revenues associated with property management applications. PAR is growing its installation base with deployments of ATRIO , the next generation cloud-based property management software for this market. With ATRIOs purpose-built cloud design, the Company can leverage the benefits and dramatic cost reductions that have occurred in cloud computing over the last four years. This design provides PAR with a competitive advantage when compared to on premise, server-based, property management solutions as well as solutions that use remote data centers. Other advantages to PAR's true cloud computing design include inherent benefits ranging from automated backup and recovery, real-time system health monitoring, and rapid global deployment options. In addition to progress with ATRIO, PAR continues to experience success with its SMS |Host and Spa Soft software applications as new properties were added during the quarter. Approximately 38% of the Company's revenues are generated by PAR's Government business. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its technical services and ISR solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investment in business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently secure the renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and specific areas of spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. 14 Table of Contents Results of Operations Three Months Ended June 30, 2014 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2013 PAR reported revenues of $57.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, a decrease of 3.6% from the $59.5 million reported for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. PAR reported net loss from continuing operations of $519,000 or $0.03 per share for the second quarter of 2014 versus a net income from continuing operations of $248,000 or $0.02 per share for the same period in 2013. During the second quarter of 2013, PAR reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $191,000. Product revenues were $23.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, an increase of 3.1% from the $22.3 million recorded in 2013. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales made through our worldwide dealer network, which increased 48% on a year over year basis. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from McDonalds international, resulting from the completion of a large rollout in 2013. Service revenues were $14.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, a decrease of 2.6% from the $15.3 million reported for the same period in 2013. The decrease is mostly the result of a decline in field service revenue as certain customers transitioned to alternative service support delivery models. Contract revenues were $19.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, compared to $21.9 million reported for the same period in 2013, a decrease of 11%. This decrease is mostly driven by the timing of task orders on the Company's ISR systems integration contracts with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 were 31.3%, a decrease from 33.3% for the same period in 2013. During the quarter, the Company experienced an unfavorable product mix in sales of our hardware offerings, offset by increased software sales. Service margins were 27.4% for the quarter ended June 30, 2014; a decrease from the 28.8% recorded for the same period in 2013. The decrease is a result of unfavorable service revenue mix during the quarter. Contract margins were 5.3% for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, compared to 7.4% for the same period in 2013. This decrease was due to favorable modifications of certain contracts during 2013 that did not recur in 2014. The most significant components of contract costs in 2014 and 2013 were labor and fringe benefits. For the second quarter of 2014, labor and fringe benefits were $9.4 million or 51% of contract costs compared to $9.8 million or 48.5% of contract costs for the same period in 2013. This increase in percentage is mostly attributable to the lower amount of subcontract revenue associated with the Company's ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army in 2014. 15 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses were remained flat at $9.5 million for both periods ending June 30, 2014. While the Company has reduced its overall general and administrative expense during the quarter, this reduction was offset by an increase in sales and marketing expenses associated with its Hospitality businesses. Research and development expenses were $3.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, relatively flat from the $3.7 million recorded for the same period in 2013. This slight increase was primarily related to increased software development costs for products within the Hospitality segment. Other income, net was $406,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 compared to $255,000 for the same period in 2013. Other income/expense primarily includes unrealized gains/losses on the Company's investments, market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency gains and losses. The income in 2014 is primarily due to foreign currency gains and higher rental income. The income in 2013 was primarily related to strategic product development partnerships within the Company's Hospitality businesses and a lower fair value adjustment with respect to the Company's deferred compensation plan. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $25,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 as compared to $13,000 for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013. For the three months ended June 30, 2014, the Company's effective income tax benefit was 17.9%, compared to 50% for the same period in 2013. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2014 and 2013 were due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2014 and 2013. 16 Table of Contents Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2013 PAR reported revenues of $113.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, a decrease of 9.7% from the $126.2 million reported for the same period in 2013. PAR reported a net loss from continuing operations of $1.5 million or $0.10 loss per share for the six months ended June 30, 2014 versus net loss of $121,000 or $0.01 loss per share for the same period in 2013. During the six months end June 30, 2013, PAR reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $206,000 or $0.01 per share. Product revenues were $41.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, a decrease of 10% from the $46.2 million recorded in 2013. This decrease was primarily the result of decreased sales to major accounts as large rollouts were completed in fiscal 2013. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in sales of hardware and software solutions sold through our third party distribution channels, which increased by 35% as compared to 2013. Service revenues were $29.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, a decrease from the $31.3 million reported for the same period in 2013. The primary contributor of the decrease was the decline in installation revenue due to lower volume of product deployments. Contract revenues were $43.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, a decrease of 11.2% compared to $48.7 million reported for the same period in 2013. This decrease is mostly attributable to the Companys Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems integration contracts with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the six months ended June 30, 2014 were 30.9%, a decrease from 32.2% for the same period in 2013. This decrease was driven by an unfavorable hardware mix offset by increased software sales during the year. Service margins were 30.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2014, an increase from the 28.3% recorded for the same period in 2013. The increase is primarily the result of improved margins within our depot repair and installation operations. Contract margins were 6.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2014, compared to 5.9% for the same period in 2013. This increase was due to favorable performance on fixed price contracts due to favorable modifications, partially offset by investments in the Company's ISR technologies. The most significant components of contract costs in 2014 and 2013 were labor and fringe benefits. For the first six months ended June 2014, labor and fringe benefits were $19.3 million or 47% of contract costs compared to $20.3 million or 44% of contract costs for the same period in 2013. This increase in percentage is mostly attributable to lower subcontract pass through revenue associated with the Companys new ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2014 were $18.8 million, a decrease compared to $19.7 million recorded for the same period in 2013. The decrease is attributable to costs primarily incurred from separation and litigation related matters that were resolved during 2013. 17 Table of Contents Research and development expenses were $7.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, a slight decrease from the $7.8 million recorded for the same period in 2013. This decrease was associated with reduced software development costs associated with the Company's Hospitality software products. Other income was $328,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 compared to income of $221,000 for the same period in 2013. Other income/expense primarily includes unrealized gains/losses on the Companys investments, market value fluctuations of the Companys deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency gains and losses. The income in 2014 is primarily due to foreign currency gains. The income in 2013 was primarily due to income related to strategic product development partnerships within the Companys Hospitality business and lower market volatility within the deferred compensation plan. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $42,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 as compared to $26,000 for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013. For the six months ended June 30, 2014, the Companys effective income tax benefit was 18%, compared to a benefit of 83% for the same period in 2013. This variance from the federal statutory rate was due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2014. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2013 was due to a benefit of $410,000 received in connection with the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was signed into law in January 2013. The credit related to retroactive tax relief for certain tax law provisions that expired in 2012. Because the legislation was signed into law after the end of PARs 2012 fiscal year, the retroactive effects of the bill will be reflected in the first quarter of 2013. Excluding the retroactive application of this credit, the Companys expected effective federal rate is 26%. This remaining variance from the federal statutory rate was due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Companys domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations was $5.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 compared to cash used in operating activities of $7.3 million for the same period in 2013. In 2014, cash generated in operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital, primarily associated with increases in deferred revenue based on timing of billings for our service contracts offset by increases in accounts receivable due to the timing of product sales and contract billing. Cash was also generated by a decrease in inventory associated with the timing of deployments to customers. In 2013, cash was used in operations due to the Company's net loss and change in working capital requirements, primarily associated with an increase in inventory due to the Company's transition of its hardware product lines, decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable from timing of payments made to vendors, specifically for inventory purchases and timing of payments associated with the Company's ISR contract with the U.S. Government. This was partially offset by the add back of non-cash charges, as well as an increase in deferred service revenue due to the timing of customer service contracts. 18 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 versus $2.1 million for the same period in 2013. In 2014, capital expenditures of $1.2 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $1.5 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2013, capital expenditures of $477,000 were primarily for tooling related to the Company's hardware products, as well as for purchases of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $1.6 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $79,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 versus $24,000 in 2013. In 2014, the Company decreased its long-term debt by $82,000. In 2013, the Company decreased its long-term debt by $78,000 offset by stock option proceeds of $54,000. On June 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of this facility through June 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior facility. This facility provides the Company with capital of up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in the form of a revolving line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate (3.25% at June 30, 2014). At June 30, 2014, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 2.5% during fiscal year 2014. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Company was in compliance with these covenants at June 30, 2014. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a $1.0 million mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate is currently 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014 and through the maturity date of the loan, the fixed rate will be converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. The annual mortgage payment including interest through October 1, 2014 totals $207,000. 19 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2014, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3-5 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonald's and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Company's liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Company's future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company's sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in management's opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. Adoption of the amendments is required in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Early adoption is not permitted. The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. PAR is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on PAR's financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued guidance that raises the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operations. The new guidance defines a discontinued operation as a disposal of a component or group of components that is disposed of or is classified as held for sale and represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The new guidance is effective on January 1, 2015, with early adoption permitted. While we do not expect a material impact on PARs financial statements upon adoption, the effects on future periods will depend upon the nature and significance of future disposals. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB issued guidance eliminating diversity in practice surrounding the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The new guidance requires entities to net an unrecognized tax benefit with a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward if the carryforward would be used to settle additional tax due upon disallowance of a tax position. The amendment is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2013 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents In March 2013, the FASB clarified that, when a reporting entity (parent) ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a business within a foreign entity, the parent is required to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. The cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. The FASB also clarified that if a business combination is achieved in stages related to a previously held equity method investment (step-acquisition) that is a foreign entity, the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income that is reclassified and included in the calculation of gain or loss as of the acquisition date shall include any foreign currency translation adjustment related to that previously held investment. The amendments are effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance requiring an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date as the amount the entity agreed to pay for the arrangement between them and the other entities that are also obligated to the liability and any additional amount the entity expects to pay on behalf of the other entities. The amendments are effective for fiscal periods (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company disclosed accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of our critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.