Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "will," or "expect", we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot provide assurances that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. PARs Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. PARs products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functions, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. PAR conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 15 Table of Contents Within the Hospitality businesses PAR continues to focus on building a diversified customer base through the Companys investment in new hardware, software and solution offerings. This diversification is a key component to PARs strategy of enhancing the Companys recurring and subscription based revenue that will result in a more consistent financial performance for PAR. One of PARs primary initiatives to achieve this strategy is the continued penetration of the grocery and retail market through deployments of the Companys SureCheck product for food safety and task management applications. Successful entry into these markets allows PAR to create a broader customer base, which assists in mitigating revenue volatility that can be associated with the timing of product deployments with major Restaurant customers. In addition, PAR continues to expand its worldwide third-party distribution channels through the addition of new partners and leveraging current relationships. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. However, the Company has seen certain economic conditions impact smaller regional QSR organizations, whose business is slowing due to the continued lack of consumer confidence in those regions. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The Company continues to assess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. The Hotel/Resort/Spa technology business within the Hospitality segment provides PAR with an opportunity to grow recurring software revenues associated with property management applications. PAR is growing its installation base with deployments of ATRIO , the Companys next generation cloud-based property management software developed for this market. With ATRIOs purpose-built cloud design, the Company is leveraging the benefits and dramatic cost reductions that have occurred in cloud computing over the last four years. This design provides PAR with a competitive advantage when compared to on premise, server-based, property management solutions as well as solutions that are hosted in remote data centers. Other advantages to PARs true cloud computing design include inherent benefits ranging from automated backup and recovery, real-time system health monitoring, and rapid global deployment options. In addition to progress with ATRIO, PAR continues to experience success with its SMS |Host and Spa Soft software applications as new properties were added during the quarter. Approximately 37% of the Company's revenues are generated by PARs Government business. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its technical services and ISR solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investment in business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently secure the renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and specific areas of spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 PAR reported revenues of $56.3 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, an increase of 1.4% from the $55.5 million reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2013. PAR reported net loss from continuing operations of $109,000 or $0.01 per share for the third quarter of 2014 versus a net income from continuing operations of $445,000 or $0.03 per diluted share for the same period in 2013. During the third quarter of 2013, PAR incurred a loss from discontinued operations of $5,000. Product revenues were $22.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, a decrease of 2.9% from the $22.7 million recorded in 2013. This decrease was primarily driven by lower revenues generated from PARs tier one accounts which was partially offset by an increase in sales made through the Companys worldwide dealer network as well as software license revenue, which increased 50% and 52%, respectively, on a year over year basis. Service revenues were $14.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, a decrease of 3.8% from the $14.7 million reported for the same period in 2013. The decrease is mostly the result of a decline in field service revenue as certain customers transitioned to alternative service support delivery models. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase of new field contracts with certain customers and an increase in software related services due to the increase in software licenses sold during 2014. Contract revenues were $20.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, compared to $18.2 million reported for the same period in 2013, an increase of 10.8%. This increase is mostly driven by the timing of task orders on the Company's ISR systems integration contracts with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 were 35.7%, an increase from 31.7% for the same period in 2013. During the quarter, product margin was favorably impacted by the increase in software license revenue. Service margins were 28.7% for the quarter ended September 30, 2014; an increase from the 24.9% recorded for the same period in 2013. The increase is a result of favorable service revenue mix during the quarter as the Company increased its contract volume with more favorable margins and further reduced its cost structure. Contract margins were 6.7% for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, compared to 8.4% for the same period in 2013. This decrease was due to favorable modifications of certain contracts during 2013 that did not recur in 2014. The most significant components of contract costs in 2014 and 2013 were labor and fringe benefits. For the third quarter of 2014, labor and fringe benefits were $9.0 million or 48% of contract costs compared to $10.0 million or 60.2% of contract costs for the same period in 2013. This decrease in percentage is mostly attributable to the higher amount of subcontract revenue associated with the Company's ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army in 2014. 17 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses were $9.4 million for the period ending September 30, 2014, an increase of 8.9%, compared to the $8.6 million for the period ending September 30, 2013. The increases are due to certain costs related to severance, the acquisition of Brink and an increase in sales and marketing investments associated with the Companys Hospitality businesses. Research and development expenses were $4.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, up slightly from the $3.7 million recorded for the same period in 2013. This increase was primarily related to increased software development costs for products within the Hospitality segment to further expand functionality and feature sets of associated with PARs product offerings. During 2014, the Company recorded $31,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the Brink acquisition. Other expense, net was $20,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 compared to other income of $152,000 for the same period in 2013. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The expense in 2014 is primarily due to foreign currency gains and lower rental income. The income in 2013 was primarily related to strategic product development partnerships within the Company's Hospitality businesses and a lower fair value adjustment with respect to the Company's deferred compensation plan. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $21,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 as compared to $16,000 for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013. For the three months ended September 30, 2014, the Company's effective income tax benefit was 49.5%, compared to 207% for the same period in 2013. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2014 and 2013 were due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2014 and 2013. 18 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 PAR reported revenues of $170.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a decrease of 6.3% from the $181.7 million reported for the same period in 2013. PAR reported net loss from continuing operations of $1.6 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the nine months ended 2014 versus a net income of $324,000 or $0.02 per diluted share for the same period in 2013. During the nine months ended 2013, PAR reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $211,000 or $0.01 per share. Product revenues were $63.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a decrease of 7.7% from the $68.8 million recorded in 2013. This decrease was primarily the result of decreased sales to major accounts as large rollouts were completed in fiscal 2013. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in sales of hardware and software solutions sold through the Companys worldwide dealer network, which increased by 39% as compared to 2013. Service revenues were $43.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a decrease of 5.9% from the $46.0 million reported for the same period in 2013. The decrease is mostly the result of a decline in field service revenue as certain customers transitioned to alternative service support delivery models and installation revenue consummate with lower product revenue. This decline is partially offset by an increase associated with the Company's depot repair and call center operations resulting from new contracts. Contract revenues were $63.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, compared to $66.9 million reported for the same period in 2013, a decrease of 5.2%. This decrease is attributable to less funding on certain ISR contracts and certain technical services contracts with the Department of Defense that did not renew during the year. Product margins for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were 32.5%, an increase from 32.0% for the same period in 2013. This increase was driven by a favorable product mix resulting from increased software license revenue associated with full system rollouts within the Companys worldwide dealer network. Service margins were 29.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, an increase from the 27.2% recorded for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with a favorable mix in service offerings compared to 2013. Contract margins were 6.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, compared to 6.6% for the same period in 2013. This decrease was due to favorable modifications of certain contracts that were extended during 2013 that resulted in higher profits for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. The most significant components of contract costs in 2014 and 2013 were labor and fringe benefits. For the nine months ended September 2014, labor and fringe benefits were $28.3 million or 47.6% of contract costs compared to $30.3 million or 48.6% of contract costs for the same period in 2013. This decrease in percentage is mostly attributable to the higher amount of subcontract revenue in 2013 associated with the Company's ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were $28.2 million, relatively flat compared to $28.3 million recorded for the same period in 2013. The decrease is attributable to the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its domestic Hospitality operations. Partially offsetting the decrease were increases from the Brink acquisition and equity based compensation expense. 19 Table of Contents Research and development expenses were $11.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013. Research and development expenses primarily related to hardware and software development costs for products within the Hospitality segment associated with the Companys continued investment in its new products. During 2014, the Company recorded $31,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the Brink acquisition. Other income, net was $308,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to $373,000 for the same period in 2013. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The income in 2014 is primarily due to foreign currency gains. The income in 2013 was primarily due to income related to strategic product development partnerships within the Companys Hospitality business and lower market volatility within the deferred compensation plan. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $63,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to $42,000 for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014, the Company's effective income tax benefit was 21%, compared to a benefit of 156% for the same period in 2013. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2014 were due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2014. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2013 was due to a benefit of $410,000 received in connection with the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was signed into law in January 2013. The credit related to retroactive tax relief for certain tax law provisions that expired in 2012. Because the legislation was signed into law after the end of PAR's 2012 fiscal year, the retroactive effects of the bill were reflected in the first quarter of 2013. Excluding the retroactive application of this credit, the Company's expected effective federal rate is 85%. This remaining variance from the federal statutory rate was due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash generated in operating activities of continuing operations was $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to cash used in operating activities of continuing operations of $4.6 million for the same period in 2013. In 2014, cash generated from operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital, primarily associated with increases in deferred revenue based on timing of billings for the Companys service contracts offset by increases in inventory due to timing of customer deployments. In 2013, cash was used in operations mostly due to the Company's change in working capital requirements, primarily associated with decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable from timing of payments made to vendors, specifically for inventory purchases and timing of payments associated with the Company's ISR contract with the U.S. Government. This was partially offset by the add back of non-cash charges, decreases in accounts receivable due to improved collection efforts, as well as an increase in deferred service revenue due to the timing of customer service contracts. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $8.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 versus $4.0 million for the same period in 2013. In 2014, the purchase of Brink Software Inc. accounted for approximately $5.0 million of the investing capital. Additionally, capital expenditures of $1.6 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $2.3 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2013, capital expenditures of $762,000 were primarily for purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $3.2 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. Cash generated in financing activities from continuing operations was $5.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 versus cash used of $67,000 in 2013. In 2014, the Company increased borrowed $6.0 million on its credit facility, mostly in connection with the purchase of Brink Software Inc. and stock proceeds of $13,000. These were offset by decreases in long-term debt of $129,000. In 2013, the Company decreased its long-term debt by $119,000 offset by stock option proceeds of $52,000. On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20,000,000 in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. The terms of the new agreement provide for up to $25,000,000 of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and such subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.25% at September 30, 2014) or, at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.50 2.0%). At September 30, 2014, the Company had an outstanding balance of approximately $5.9 million on this line of credit at a rate of 3.25%. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 3.25% during fiscal year 2014. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. The Company was in compliance with these covenants at September 30, 2014. In addition to the borrowings under the credit agreement, the Company also added an additional $10.0 million of other short term and long term debt payable through fiscal year 2019 due to the Brink Software Inc. acquisition. 21 Table of Contents In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a $960,000 mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate is currently 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014 and through the maturity date of the loan, the fixed rate will be converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. The annual mortgage payment including interest through October 1, 2014 totals $207,000. During fiscal year 2014, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $4-6 million. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonald's and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Company's liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Company's future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company's sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in management's opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance on the accounting for certain share-based employee compensation awards. The amended guidance requires that share-based employee compensation awards with terms of a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award and compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved. The Company is required to adopt this guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2016. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 22 Table of Contents In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. Adoption of the amendments is required in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Early adoption is not permitted. The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. PAR is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on PAR's financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued guidance that raises the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operations. The new guidance defines a discontinued operation as a disposal of a component or group of components that is disposed of or is classified as held for sale and represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The new guidance is effective on January 1, 2015, with early adoption permitted. While we do not expect a material impact on PARs financial statements upon adoption, the effects on future periods will depend upon the nature and significance of future disposals. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB issued guidance eliminating diversity in practice surrounding the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The new guidance requires entities to net an unrecognized tax benefit with a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward if the carryforward would be used to settle additional tax due upon disallowance of a tax position. The amendment is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2013 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. In March 2013, the FASB clarified that, when a reporting entity (parent) ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a business within a foreign entity, the parent is required to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. The cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. The FASB also clarified that if a business combination is achieved in stages related to a previously held equity method investment (step-acquisition) that is a foreign entity, the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income that is reclassified and included in the calculation of gain or loss as of the acquisition date shall include any foreign currency translation adjustment related to that previously held investment. The amendments are effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance requiring an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date as the amount the entity agreed to pay for the arrangement between them and the other entities that are also obligated to the liability and any additional amount the entity expects to pay on behalf of the other entities. The amendments are effective for fiscal periods (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2014 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies In PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company disclosed accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of the Companys critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.