Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies." If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Government Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 128,675 Rome, NY Government Research and development 31,900 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 21,300 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 20,500 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 14,900 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,000 Las Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Vaughn, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 10,000 Toronto, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 7,700 The Company's headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, NY, which is near Utica, in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Company's facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. 18 Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. During 2012, the results from continuing operations were materially affected by legal costs incurred in our defense and resolution of a non-practicing entity patent claim. Total costs incurred in 2012 related to this specific matter were $1.5 million. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 19 PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company's Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2012, there were approximately 423 owners of record of the Company's Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2012 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2012 2011 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $3.84 $5.18 $4.28 $6.63 Second Quarter $4.50 $5.14 $3.63 $4.99 Third Quarter $4.57 $5.59 $3.04 $3.93 Fourth Quarter $4.75 $5.55 $3.22 $4.00 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Not Required. 20 Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "will," or "expect", we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. The Company's Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. The Company's products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 21 The Company is focused on expanding four distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is investing in the market introduction and deployment of ATRIO, its next generation, cloud-based property management software for the Hotel/Resort/Spa market. Second, we are investing in the enhancement of existing software and the development of the Company's SureCheck product for food safety and task management applications. Third, the Company continues to work on building more robust and extensive third-party distribution channels. Fourth, as the Company's customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. The QSR market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies, despite worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty. However, the Company has seen an impact of current economic conditions on smaller, regional QSR organizations, whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in certain regions. The Company is continuing to reassess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's significant estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. Approximately 36% of the Company's revenues are generated by its Government business. The Company's focus is to expand two separate aspects of its Government business: services and solutions. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development staff and processes, the Company is able to consistently win the renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and be awarded new efforts. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years may impact the performance of this business segment. Results of Operations 2012 Compared to 2011 The Company reported revenues of $245.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, an increase of 7% from the $229.4 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company's net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.8 million, or $0.12 loss per share, compared to net loss of $13.4 million, or $0.89 loss per share for the same period in 2011. During 2012, the Company reported income from discontinued operations of $1.4 million, or $0.10 per diluted share associated with the sale of its Logistics Management business. This compares to a loss of $2.2 million or $0.15 loss per share for the same period in 2011. The Company's net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $315,000, or $0.02 loss per share, compared to a net loss of $15.5 million, or $1.04 per share for fiscal year 2011. 22 Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $90.5 million, slightly below the $91.0 million recorded for the same period 2011. This decrease was primarily the result of a decline in domestic sales to McDonald's as their significant North American upgrade program was completed in 2011. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in sales of the Company's SureCheck product to a significant launch customer during the year, as well as increases in product sales to YUM! Brands and SUBWAY, commensurate with new store rollouts and upgrades. Lastly, the Company experienced an increase in international product sales compared to 2011, primarily related to an increase in international McDonald's sales, as well as increases in sales made through the Company's dealer channels, which have increased 15% over 2011. Service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, 24 hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $66.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, a 5% decrease from $69.5 million reported for the same period in 2011. This decrease was associated with a decline in installation revenue commensurate with the related decline in full system installations in the Company's Hospitality businesses as well as a decline in call center revenue resulting from a modification to existing service contracts. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in software maintenance and professional services revenue associated with the deployment of the Company's SureCheck product. Government contract revenues were $88.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, an increase of 28% when compared to the $68.9 million recorded in 2011. This increase is mostly attributable to the Company's new Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2012 were 27.9%, a decrease from 36.4% in the same period in 2011. The decrease was primarily the result of accelerated amortization of $5.3 million to reduce the net carrying value of capitalized software asset in conjunction with the Company's strategic initiative to streamline its Hospitality product portfolio. Also contributing to this decrease was an unfavorable mix in product sales resulting from a reduction in the amount of terminals sold relative to lower margin peripheral devices, partially offset by an increase in software revenue driven by sales of the Company's SureCheck software product. Customer service margins were 30.3% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 18.3% for the same period in 2011. During 2011, the Company recorded a charge of $7.7 million associated with the write down of service parts inventory related to discontinued products which did not recur in 2012. Other factors contributing to the increase were improved margins in multiple areas including international sales and depot revenue. Offsetting the aforementioned increase was a decrease in the Company's call center margin due to the modification of existing contracts. 23 Government contract margins were 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012, relatively unchanged when compared to the 6.7% for the same period in 2011. Contract margins for each year were benefited by the sale of Gv 2 F enterprise licenses. The most significant components of contract costs in 2012 and 2011 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2012, labor and fringe benefits were $40.7 million, or 49% of contract costs, compared to $45.7 million or 71% of contract costs for the same period in 2011. This decrease is mostly attributable to the amount of contract work performed by subcontractors under the Company's new ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $40.5 million, an increase of 13% from the $35.8 million recorded for the same period in 2011. This increase was partially the result of an increase in legal expenses associated with the defense and resolution of a non-practicing entity patent claim, as well as increases in severance and other costs related to the cancellation of certain office lease matters. In addition, the increase was due to higher commission expense associated with the increase in software sales during the year, as well as an increase in sales and marketing effort associated with the Company's Hospitality products. Research and development expenses were $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, a slight decrease from the $13.8 million recorded in 2011. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company determined that as a result of the decline in the stock price that occurred during the second quarter, a goodwill impairment triggering event had occurred. The fair value of the Company's common shares declined from $4.60 per share at April 1, 2011 to $3.83 per share at June 30, 2011, resulting in the Company no longer being able to reconcile the aggregate fair value of its reporting units to its market capitalization after consideration of a reasonable control premium. Although there was no significant adverse change to the long term financial outlook of any of its businesses, the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred and as a result, performed additional analyses over the valuation of its reporting units in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recording a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill in the second quarter of 2011. In addition to the aforementioned goodwill impairment charge, as part of this analysis, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $455,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $840,000 for the same period in 2011. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2011 and 2012. Other income, net, was $876,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $203,000 for the same period in 2011. Other income primarily includes unrealized gains on the Company's investments, strategic product development partnerships, rental income, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The increase in 2012 was due to foreign currency gains as well as income related to strategic product development partnerships within the Company's Hospitality businesses. 24 Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $69,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $211,000 for the same period in 2011. This reduction is associated with a lower outstanding borrowing in 2012 versus 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company's effective income tax rate was a benefit of 44.5%, compared to a benefit of 35.8% in 2011. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2012 was due to state and foreign income taxes, as well as the tax impact of liquidating a foreign subsidiary. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2011 was primarily due to research credits and state tax benefits, partially offset by an additional valuation allowance necessary related to certain deferred tax assets. In connection with the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was signed into law in January 2013, the Company expects to record a one-time benefit of approximately $390,000 related to retroactive tax relief for certain tax law provisions that expired in 2012. Because the legislation was signed into law after the end of PAR's 2012 fiscal year, the retroactive effects of the bill will be reflected in the first quarter of 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and lines of credit with various commercial banks. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $13.7 million for the same period in 2011. In 2012, cash was generated by the Company's operating results plus the add back of non-cash expenses including the accelerated amortization of internally developed software assets that were previously capitalized. The most significant changes to the Company's operating assets and liabilities that impacted cash flow were an increase in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of payments associated with the Company's ISR contract with the U.S. Government, as well as an increase in deferred service revenue due to the timing of billing of customer service contracts. Offsetting these changes was an increase in inventory in support of shipments planned for early 2013. In 2011, cash was generated by the Company's operating results before the non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment and inventory charges, offset by reductions to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant changes to the Company's operating assets and liabilities were the decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of collections of advanced service and maintenance contract billings. This was partially offset by cash used towards payments of accounts payable and accrued salaries and benefits based on the timing of payments. Cash was also used to support the execution of existing service support contracts with customers. 25 Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $247,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 versus $8.3 million for the same period in 2011. In 2012, the Company received cash proceeds of $4 million related to the sale of its Logistics Management business, and generated $1.9 million from the maturity of its investments. In addition, $828,000 of the proceeds from the Company's sale of its Logistics Management business remains in escrow as of yearend. Capital expenditures were $1.9 million and were primarily related to capital investments to support the Company's new hardware products, as well as for purchases of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $3.4 million and was associated with the Company's Hospitality software platforms. In 2011, capital expenditures were $896,000 and were primarily related to the purchase of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $7.4 million, an increase from the prior year as a result of investment in the Company's Restaurant and Hotel /Resort / Spa software. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 versus $1.6 million for the same period in 2011. In 2012, the Company decreased its long-term borrowings by $1.5 million and benefited $24,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2011, the Company decreased its long term debt by $1.7 million and benefited $133,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. The Company maintains a credit facility which provides borrowing availability up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2012). This agreement expires in June 2014. At December 31, 2012, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 1.31% during fiscal year 2012. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In February 2013, the agreement was amended to allow the Company to exclude certain extraordinary or non-recurring non-cash expenses, charges or losses, and certain litigation expenses incurred during the fourth quarter of 2012. The exclusion of these charges will be applied to the Company's debt covenant calculation through December 31, 2013. Additionally, as part of this amendment, the Company modified its definition of Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA), to exclude certain non-cash charges for the remainder of the agreement. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at December 31, 2012. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. 26 The Company has a $1.2 million mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. In May 2012, the Company amended its mortgage to reduce the fixed interest rate to 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014 and through the maturity date of the loan, the fixed rate will be converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. The annual mortgage payment including interest through October 1, 2014 totals $207,000. During fiscal year 2013, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $5-6 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonald's and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Company's liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Company's future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company's sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in management's opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. The Company's future principal payments under its term loan, mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Long-term debt obligations $ 1,243 $ 159 $ 326 $ 367 $ 391 Operating lease 4,709 1,967 2,011 731 0 Total $ 5,952 $ 2,126 $ 2,337 $ 1,098 $ 391 Critical Accounting Policies The Company's consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. 27 Revenue Recognition Policy Product revenues consist of sales of the Company's standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Product revenues include both hardware and software sales. The Company also records service revenues relating to its standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company), when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. For software sales where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, support maintenance, and field and depot repair. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. The individual hardware, service, and software offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, the units of accounting are based on each individual hardware, service, and software sold, and revenue is allocated to each element based on vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE of fair value for each individual hardware, service, and software is based on separate individual prices of these products and services. The sales price used to establish fair value is the sales price of the element when it is sold individually in a separate arrangement and not as a separate element in a multiple element arrangement. Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements, especially those with multiple elements, requires a significant level of judgment and is based upon review of specific contracts, past experiences, the selling price of undelivered elements when sold separately, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. 28 In situations where PAR's solutions contain software that is more than incidental, revenue related to software and software related elements is recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vender specific objective evidence (VSOE). If the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Government Contracts The Company's contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Company's obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Company's consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. 29 Inventories The Company's inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when the Company has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility (as defined within ASC 985-20) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two business segments, Hospitality and Government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting unit's fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. With respect to the Government and Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting units, the Company utilizes three different methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches, namely the guideline public company method and quoted price method. As a result of the write-off of goodwill recorded in 2011, the Company did not utilize the discounted cash flow method for its Restaurant reporting unit as this reporting unit no longer carries a goodwill balance. As such, the Company has applied a 50% weight to each of the aforementioned market approaches for this reporting unit. Other than the aforementioned change, the valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Company's past annual impairment tests. 30 The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the Company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participant's view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Company's forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Company's discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate of 3% (beyond five years) and discount rates ranging from 17% to 27%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Company's projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subject's similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. 31 The amount of goodwill carried by the Hotel/Resort/Spa and Government reporting units is $6.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 14%. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Hotel /Resort/Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 5% and 27%. The high end growth rate reflects the Company's projected revenues resulting from the release of ATRIO. This software platform will expand the Company's capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. The projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from ATRIO. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in ATRIO is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 27% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Company's historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Company's operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Company's products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Company's reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value remeasurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs . These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. 32 The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium. Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Company's estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.