Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report). 14 Table of Contents Item 1B . Unresolved Staff Comments . We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. Item 2 . Properties . Our corporate headquarters is located at PAR Technology Park, 8383 Seneca Turnpike, New Hartford, New York. We own our corporate headquarters both the building and land. We lease all our other properties for varying terms. We believe our existing properties, both owned and leased, are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business for the foreseeable future. The following table sets forth the location, the operating segment (if applicable) that uses and the use of each of our principal properties and each properties approximate square footage: Location Operating Segment Use Approximate Square Footage New Hartford, NY Corporate/ Restaurant / Retail Corporate headquarters, assembly, research and development laboratories, sales, service, wellness, and computing facilities 216,800 Rome, NY Government Research, product development, sales 30,800 Sydney, Australia Restaurant / Retail Sales and service 14,400 Boca Raton, FL Restaurant / Retail Research and product development 11,470 Markham, Ontario Restaurant / Retail Research and product development 11,100 Boulder, CO Restaurant / Retail Service 10,700 In addition to the properties identified above, we have leasehold interests in small office spaces located in San Diego, California (use: research, product development, sales and administration) and Shanghai, China; Singapore; Staines, United Kingdom; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Paris, France (use: sales and administration). 15 Table of Contents Item 3 . Legal Proceedings . We are not currently a party to any material litigation. See Note 10 Contingencies - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report) for information regarding legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, and a discussion about our current internal investigation into import/export and sales documentation activities at our China and Singapore offices, and the civil and criminal sanctions available to the SEC, DOJ, and other governmental agencies (including foreign governmental agencies). Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 16 Table of Contents PART II Item 5 . Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PAR. On March 28, 2017, there were 411 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange: 2016 2015 High Low High Low First Quarter $6.63 $5.04 $6.04 $4.03 Second Quarter 6.86 4.35 4.98 3.80 Third Quarter 5.52 4.83 5.29 4.11 Fourth Quarter 5.58 4.71 7.39 5.12 We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any further determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Under our equity incentive plans, in consideration for grants of performance vesting restricted stock, recipients must pay PAR par value for each share granted; if the performance vesting requirements are not satisfied, PAR repurchases the forfeited shares at par value. In addition, employees may elect to have us withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory federal, state and local tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock. When we withhold these shares, we are required to remit to the appropriate taxing authorities the market price of the shares withheld, which could be deemed a purchase of shares by us on the date of withholding. Item 6. Selected Financial Data . Not Required. 17 Table of Contents Item 7 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included under Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report. See also, Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report. Overview PARs management technology solutions for the Restaurant/Retail segment features cloud and on-premise software applications, hardware platforms, and related installation, technical, and maintenance support services tailored for the needs of restaurants and retailers. Our Government segment provides technical expertise in contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as management technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. Our products sold in the Restaurant/Retail segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by customers worldwide. We face competition across all categories in the Restaurant/Retail segment in which we compete based on product design, innovative features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. Our strategy is to provide complete integrated management technology solutions, supported by industry leading customer service. Our research and development efforts are focused on timely identifying changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, to rapidly and effectively develop innovative new products and enhancements to our existing products that meet and exceed customer requirements. Our strategy is to expand our Restaurant/Retail business by continuing to invest in our existing products - Brink and SureCheck - including the development of enhancements to our existing software applications and hardware platforms and the development of new and innovative cloud based software applications. To support the growth of our products, we continue to expand our direct sales force and third-party channel partners. Currently, PARs primary market is the quick serve restaurant category and hardware sales to tier 1 customers in that category. Our strategy continues to focus on growth of our software offerings, including our cloud software as a service (SaaS) and related hardware and support services, consistent with our strategy to expand our product offerings beyond restaurant and retail markets. As we implement our strategies, we continuously monitor the trends in the markets we currently operate and the markets we intend to operate in the future. We know POS hardware is becoming a commodity, as more POS devices (tablets, kiosks and bring your own device) are introduced, competition will increase, driven by pricing, scalability, functionality, and economies of scale, resulting in smaller margins. Our strategy acknowledges this trend, and we intend to grow our recurring revenues from software contracts, specifically SaaS, reducing the impact of this eventual commoditization of POS hardware. The strategy for our PAR Government segment is to build on our sustained outstanding performance of existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for the PAR Government segment. Results of Operations 2016 Compared to 2015 During the year ended December 31, 2015, we sold substantially all of the assets of our hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS). See Note 2 Divestiture and Discontinued Operations - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion, including the terms of the transaction. We reported revenues of $229.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, flat from the $229.0 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2015. Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment of $149.3 million for the year ended December 31,2016, increased 5.8%, compared to $141.2 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2015. PARs Government segment reported revenues of $80.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, a decrease of 8.6% from $87.9 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2015. We reported net income from continuing operations of $2.5 million or $0.16 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2016 versus $4.0 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the same period in 2015. For 2016 and 2015, we reported a net loss from discontinued operations of $0.7 million or $0.05 loss per share versus a loss of $4.9 million or $0.32 loss per share, respectively. 18 Table of Contents Product revenues were $100.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of 6.2% from $94.4 million recorded in 2015. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from hardware attachments associated with Brink deployments and hardware sold to global tier 1 accounts. Offsetting the increase was a decrease in revenues driven by our global channel partners. Service revenues were $49.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of 5.0% from $46.8 million reported for the same period in 2015. The increase is attributable to the diversification of our revenue base, with higher recurring revenue from our software contracts; specifically, software sold as a service, SaaS, and other revenue streams generated from post contract support (PCS) offerings. Contract revenues were $80.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $87.9 million reported for the same period in 2015, a decrease of 8.6%. This decrease was driven by lower volume within our PMO services contracts, offset by an increase in value-added revenue on our Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR), contracts. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2016, were 26.2%, a decrease from 27.7% for the same period in 2015. Overall, product margin decreased primarily due to unfavorable product mix, as a result of higher than anticipated project work from tier 1 customers, and lower sales of higher margin perpetual software licenses. Service margins were 27.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016, a decrease from 27.5% recorded for the same period in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in costs to support our hardware support contracts, and $0.5 million was due to accelerated amortization related to discontinued development of a software module. Offsetting these increases was a favorable product mix with a higher content of software sold as SaaS and other software related revenues. Contract margins were 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to 6.8% for the same period in 2015. This increase was due to a more profitable contract mix, associated with higher margin on value-added revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $31.4 million for the year ending December 31, 2016, compared to $27.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is primarily attributable to $1.5 million of expenses related to the investigation of our former chief financial officers unauthorized transfers of funds, $1.3 million of expenses related to our internal investigation of conduct at our China and Singapore offices, a write-off of $0.8 million relating to our human capital management system, and $0.6 million of expenses related to the implementation of the initial phase of our new enterprise resource system. Research and development expenses were $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $10.1 million recorded for the same period in 2015. This increase was primarily related to increased software development costs for products within the Restaurant/Retail segment, primarily R&D associated with the Companys Brink and SureCheck software applications. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded $1.0 million of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets in connection with our acquisition of Brink, which closed on September 18, 2014. We recorded $1.0 million of amortization expense associated with these assets for the year ended December 31, 2015. Other income, net, was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to other expense, net of $0.8 million for the same period in 2015. Other income/expense primarily includes fair value adjustments on contingent consideration, rental income, net of applicable expenses, foreign currency fair value adjustments, fair market value fluctuations of our deferred compensation plan and other non-operating income/expense. The primary drivers of the increase in other income, net, relates to a $1.1 million decrease of contingent consideration liability related to our acquisition of Brink in the third quarter 2014 and an insurance recovery of $0.8 million relating to our former chief financial officers unauthorized transfers of funds. 19 Table of Contents Interest income (expense), net, represents accreted increased from the note receivable related to the s ale of PSMS and interest charged on our short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest income was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, as compared to an interest expense of $0.3 million for the same period in 2015. This increase is associated with the accreted interest income of $0.2 million related to the note receivable in connection with the sale of PSMS and lower interest expense as compared to 2015, which is due to lower outstanding borrowings on the line of credit. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our effective income tax rate was an expense of 31.4%, compared to an expense of 27.2% in 2015. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2016 were due to the mix of taxable income from the Companys domestic and foreign jurisdictions, which is consistent with the variance in 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and a line of credit with its bank. Cash generated from operating activities from continuing operations was $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to cash generated of $2.6 million for the same period in 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2016, cash provided by continuing operations was $11.4 million, due to our operating results, plus the add-back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities was $3.0 million primarily as a result of customer deposits, offset by an increase in inventory. In 2015, cash provided by continuing operations was $2.6 million, cash was generated from our operating results plus the add-back of non-cash expenses and a reduction of inventory. Offsetting significant operating cash flow components include a decrease in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of vendor payments and a decrease in customer deposits associated with our Restaurant/Retail segment. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 versus $7.5 million provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015. In 2016, capital expenditures of $3.4 million were primarily for PARs new ERP system and capital improvements made to our owned and leased properties. Capitalized software was $2.7 million and was associated with investments in Restaurant/Retail software platforms. In 2015, we received cash proceeds of $12.1 million related to the sale of the PSMS business. This was offset by a $0.8 million write-off related to our former chief financial officers unauthorized transfers of Companys funds. Capital expenditures of $1.7 million were primarily related to capital improvements to leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with our software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $2.1 million and was used for investments in many of our Restaurant/Retail software platforms. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 versus $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. In 2016, we paid the third installment associated with our purchase of Brink of $2.0 million, in addition to payments on long-term debt of $0.2 million, and proceeds from stock activity of $27,000. In 2015, the Company decreased borrowings on its credit facility by $5.0 million, net and decreased borrowings on its long-term debt by $0.2 million, and benefited $0.5 million from the exercise of employee stock options. Additionally, the second installment payment associated with our acquisition of Brink accounted for approximately $3.0 million of the cash used in financing activities during 2015. On November 29, 2016, the Company, together with certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, as Loan Guarantors (together with the Company, the Loan Parties) entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Lender. The Credit Agreement provides for revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be made available to the Company; availability at any time being equal to the lesser of (i) $15.0 million and (ii) a borrowing base (equal to the sum of 80% eligible accounts, 50% eligible raw materials inventory and 35% eligible finished goods inventory, with no more than 50% of total eligible inventory included in the borrowing base), less the aggregate principal amount outstanding (the Credit Facility). Interest accrues on outstanding principal balances at an applicable rate per annum determined, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, by reference to the CBFR Spread or the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio as at the determination date. The Credit Facility replaces the Companys asset-based credit agreement dated September 9, 2014 with JPMorgan Chase, N.A. (the 2014 ABL Credit Agreement) and a portion of the proceeds of the Credit Facility were used to pay-off all indebtedness outstanding under the 2014 ABL Credit Agreement. 20 Table of Contents The Credit Facility matures three (3) years from the date of the Credit Agreement and is guaranteed by the Loan Guarantors. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and of the other Loan Parties; provided, that the Credit Facility is not secured by any liens on more than 65% of the voting stock of the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants that are usual and customary, including representations, warranties and covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur or permit to exist liens on assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into any other company, engage in asset sales and pay dividends and make distributions. The Credit Agreement requires that the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio at the end of each of its fiscal quarters to be greater than 3.0 to 1.0 and maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.15 to 1.0 for the Companys fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2016 (to be tested only in the event the Companys total consolidated indebtedness equaled or exceeded $5 million at the end of such fiscal quarter) and 1.25 to 1.0 for the quarter ending March 31, 2017 and each quarter thereafter. Obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon certain customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), including among others: nonpayment of principal, interest or fees; breach of the affirmative or negative covenants; breach of the representations or warranties in any material respect; event of default under, or acceleration of, other material indebtedness; bankruptcy or insolvency; material judgments entered against the Company or any of its subsidiaries; invalidity or unenforceability of any collateral documentation associated with the Credit Facility; and a change of control of the Company. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2016. On December 31, 2016, the applicable rate under the Credit Facility was 3.25% plus the CBFR Spread or LIBOR plus the Eurodollar Spread based on the Companys consolidated indebtedness ratio. There were no outstanding balances under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016, as such we had borrowing availability of up to $15.0 million. In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $0.6 million and $0.7 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. Interest is fixed at 4.00% through maturity. The annual mortgage payment, including interest through November 1, 2019, is $0.2 million. In connection with our acquisition of Brink on September 18, 2014, we recorded indebtedness to Brinks former owners under the stock purchase agreement. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the principal balance of the note payable was zero and $2.0 million, respectively, and it had a carrying value of zero and $1.9 million, respectively. The carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of the acquisition. The note does not bear interest, and repayment terms are $3.0 million, which was paid on the first anniversary of close, September 18, 2015, and $2.0 million payable on the second anniversary of close, which was paid in September 2016. 21 Table of Contents We expect our operating cash flows and available capacity under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the next 12 months. Our actual cash needs will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, including growth of our SaaS revenues, the timing and extent of spending to support our product development efforts, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, market acceptance of our products, and potential fines and penalties that, while currently inestimable, could be material (see Item 1A Risk Factors for further discussion about the potential adverse effect of such fines and penalties on our business). If we are required or otherwise elect to seek additional funding, we cannot be certain that such additional funding will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Our future principal payments under our mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 566 $ 187 $ 379 $ - $ - Operating lease 4,403 1,360 2,004 536 503 Total $ 4,969 $ 1,547 $ 2,383 $ 536 $ 503 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. We believe our use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis. Primary areas where financial information is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Restaurant/Retail Contracts Our Restaurant/Retail segments revenues consist of sales of our standard POS system to the Restaurant/Retail segment. We derive revenue from the following sources: (1) hardware sales, (2) software license agreements, including perpetual licenses and software as a service, SaaS, (3) professional services, (4) hosting services and (5) post-contract customer support (PCS). 22 Table of Contents We recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by us) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For software sales sold as a perpetual license, typically our Pixel software offering, where we are the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, field and depot repair, subscription software products, associated software maintenance, and software related hosted services. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates as well as contracted prices with the customer, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to and collected from the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. Software sold as a service with our Brink and SureCheck software offerings, is recorded as deferred revenue when billed and collected and recognized ratably over the contract term. We frequently enter into multiple-element arrangements with our customers including hardware, software, professional consulting services and maintenance support services. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, when deliverables include software and non-software products and services, we evaluate and separate each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in our control. Multiple element arrangements which include hardware, service, and software offerings are separated based upon the stand-alone selling price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, overall consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the units relative selling prices. In such circumstances, we use a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to each deliverable: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE), and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP). VSOE generally exists only when we sell the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by us for that deliverable. We use BESP to allocate revenue when we are unable to establish VSOE or TPE of selling price. BESP is primarily used for elements such as products that are not consistently priced within a narrow range. We determine BESP for a deliverable by considering multiple factors including product and customer class, geography, average discount, and managements historical pricing practices. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and software elements are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the undelivered maintenance and other services elements are recognized as the services are provided or on a straight-line basis over the service period. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, revenue is not recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. 23 Table of Contents Software elements, generally software PCS, and professional services revenue are recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vender specific objective evidence, where available. If VSOE is not available for all elements, we will use the residual method to separate the elements as long as we have VSOE for the undelivered elements. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, we defer the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Government Contracts Our contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. Our obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in our consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between us and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. Inventories Our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We use certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. 24 Table of Contents Capitalized Software Development Costs We capitalize certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Restaurant/Retail segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when we have completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility (as defined within ASC 985-20 for software cost related to sold as a perpetual license and ASC-350-40 for software sold as a service) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. Accounting for Business Combinations We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their respective fair values on the date of acquisition. The fair value of the consideration paid is assigned to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded to goodwill. Intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Fair value determinations and useful life estimates are based on, among other factors, estimates of expected future cash flows from revenues of the intangible assets acquired, estimates of appropriate discount rates used to present value expected future cash flows, estimated useful lives of the intangible assets acquired and other factors. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and future expectations. For these and other reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results. Contingent Consideration We determine the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration using a discounted cash flow method, with significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 fair value measurement as defined in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. The significant inputs in the Level 3 measurement not supported by market activity included our probability assessments of expected future cash flows related to our acquisition of Brink Software Inc. in 2014, during the contingent consideration period, appropriately discounted considering the uncertainties associated with the obligation, and calculated in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreement. The liabilities for the contingent consideration is established at the time of the acquisition and will be evaluated on a quarterly basis based on additional information as it becomes available. Any change in the fair value adjustment is recorded in the earnings of that period. During 2016, we recorded a $1.1 million adjustment to decrease the fair value of its contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Brink Software Inc., versus a $0.1 million adjustment to increase the fair value during 2015. These adjustments are reflected within other expense on the statement of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations may result from changes in probability assumptions with respect to the likelihood of achieving the various contingent payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. 25 Table of Contents Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. We operate in two reportable operating segments - Restaurant/Retail and Government - and goodwill is tested at this level. Goodwill is assigned to a specific operating segment at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific operating segment, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within an operating segment, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each operating segments fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of an operating segment exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each operating segment for which the first step indicated impairment. We utilize different methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test. For both the government and restaurant operating segments, these methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and multiple market approaches and the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in our past annual impairment tests. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in our equity. We consider this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on our forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within our discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long-term growth rate of 3% and discount rates ranging from 17.0% to 23.5%, depending on the operating segment. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to our projected operating results including changes to the long-term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by us. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. We considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. We established our weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for the public company method and quoted price method for both the Restaurant/Retail and Government, operating segments. 26 Table of Contents The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches we utilized are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples based on our comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Restaurant/Retail and Government segments is $10.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Restaurant/Retail segment exceeds its carrying value by approximately 18%. The estimated fair value of the government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. There were no goodwill impairment charges recorded for the restaurant and government reporting units for the years ended December 31, 2016 or 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we sold substantially all of the assets of our hotel/spa technology business operated under PAR Springer-Miller Systems, Inc. (PSMS). The transaction closed on November 4, 2015. Accordingly, the results of operations of PSMS have been classified as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 2 Divestiture and Discontinued Operations - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. At the time of sale, the hotel/spa reporting unit carried approximately $6.1 million of goodwill. Based on the purchase price, we recorded a $2.4 million impairment of the goodwill to write down the net assets to its fair value and we wrote-off the remaining associated goodwill. Restaurants: In deriving our fair value estimates, we utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in our next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. We utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 3% and 23%. The high-end growth rate reflects our projected revenues resulting from the increased install base of Brink and SureCheck customers. These software platforms will expand our capabilities into new markets. We believe these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which we will enter, combined with the projected market share we expect to achieve. Overall, the projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. We utilized gross margin estimates that are reflective of increased recurring revenue from software sold as a service that will exceed historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from our core technology platforms. We believe utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect our continued investment in our products is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the restaurant reporting unit. 27 Table of Contents Lastly, we utilized a discount rate of approximately 23.5% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between our historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which we operate could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact our operating performance. Although we have seen an improvement in the markets which we serve, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of our products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of our reporting units used in support of our annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value re-measurement, particularly if we are unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs . These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. Government: The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Consistent with prior year methodology, in deriving our fair value estimates, we have utilized key assumptions built on the current core business. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. We reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium noting no impairment as of December 31, 2016, or 2015 was recorded. Deferred Taxes We have $17.4 million of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and our estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Principles - of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part IV, Item 15 of this Report) for details. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.