Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 174,450 Rome, NY Government Research and development 30,800 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 26,500 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 20,500 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 14,900 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,400 Las Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Vaughn, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 10,000 Toronto, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 7,700 The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, NY, which is near Utica, in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. 23 Table of Contents Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 24 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2013, there were approximately 398 owners of record of the Companys Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2013 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2013 2012 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $ 4.11 $ 5.10 $ 3.84 $ 5.18 Second Quarter $ 3.85 $ 4.89 $ 4.50 $ 5.14 Third Quarter $ 4.01 $ 5.27 $ 4.57 $ 5.59 Fourth Quarter $ 4.83 $ 5.92 $ 4.75 $ 5.55 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Not Required. 25 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. The Company's Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. 26 Table of Contents The Company's products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding four distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is investing in the continued development and deployment of ATRIO, its cloud-based software for the Hotel/Resort/Spa markets. Second, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software and the development of the Company's SureCheck product for food safety and task management applications. Third, the Company continues to work on expanding its third-party distribution channels. Fourth, as the Company's customers continue to open new outlets in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies, despite worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty. The Company is continuing to reassess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently win renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations 2013 Compared to 2012 The Company reported revenues of $241.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, a decrease of 2% from the $245.2 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Companys net income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $569,000, or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to net loss of $1.8 million, or $0.12 per share for the same period in 2012. During 2013, the Company reported a loss from discontinued operations of $211,000, or $0.01 per share, associated with its former Logistics Management business. This compares to net income from discontinued operations of $1.4 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the same period in 2012. The Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $358,000, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $315,000, or $0.02 per share for fiscal year 2012. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $90.8 million, an increase from the $90.5 million recorded for the same period 2012. This increase was primarily the result of increased sales to Carl's Jr. units of CKE Restaurants, Inc. and continued growth within our international markets, which grew 17% year over year, primarily driven by sales to McDonalds in China. In addition, the Company experienced increased sales through its third-party distribution channels. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in sales of the Company's SureCheck product, noting the Company executed a transaction with a significant launch customer during 2012. Service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, 24 hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $61.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, a 7% decrease from $66.1 million reported for the same period in 2012. During the year, the Company experienced a decline in call center revenue resulting from service contract modifications as well as decline in installation services for certain accounts which did not recur in 2013. This decline is partially offset by an increase associated with the Company's depot repair operation resulting from new contracts. 28 Table of Contents Government contract revenues were $89.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, an increase of 1% when compared to the $88.5 million recorded in 2012. The Company continues to service its fixed price and cost plus contracts related to Communication and Information Technology Support as well as Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems integration. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2013 were 31.4%, an increase from 27.9% in the same period in 2012. The increase was primarily the result of accelerated amortization of $5.3 million to reduce the net carrying value of capitalized software asset in conjunction with the Companys strategic initiative to streamline its Hospitality product portfolio that was recorded in 2012. Customer service margins were 29% for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to 30.3% for the same period in 2012. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable mix in service offerings compared to year ended December 31, 2012. Government contract margins were 7.2% for the year ended December 31, 2013, an increase to the 6.4% for the same period in 2012. This increase was due to favorable modifications of certain contracts that were extended during the year, partially offset by investments in the Company's ISR technologies. For 2013, labor and fringe benefits were $40.2 million, or 51% of contract costs, compared to $40.7 million or 49% of contract costs for the same period in 2012. This increase in percentage is mostly attributable to the increase in direct labor associated with contracts that were extended in fiscal year 2013. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $37.9 million, a decrease of 6% from the $40.5 million recorded for the same period in 2012. The decrease is attributable to the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its domestic Hospitality operations. In addition, the decrease was due to higher commission expense associated with the increase in software sales during 2012. Partially offsetting the decrease were increases from certain separation cost and litigation matters settled in the first quarter. Research and development expenses were $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, an increase of 14% from the $13.7 million recorded in 2012. This increase was primarily related to software development costs for products within the Hospitality segment associated with the Companys continued investment in its new hardware and software products. 29 Table of Contents During 2013, the Company did not have any amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets as the related assets became fully amortized in 2012. During the period ended December 31, 2012 amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $455,000. Other income, net, was $506,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $876,000 for the same period in 2012. Other income/expense primarily includes unrealized gains/losses on the Company's investments, market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency gains and losses. The income in 2013 is primarily related to strategic product development partnerships within the Company's Hospitality businesses and a lower fair value adjustment with respect to the Company's deferred compensation plan. The income in 2012 was primarily due to finance charges associated with the Companys Hospitality businesses and foreign currency gains. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowings from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $60,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $69,000 for the same period in 2012. This reduction is associated with a lower outstanding borrowing in 2013 versus 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Companys effective income tax rate was a benefit of 370%, compared to a benefit of 44.5% in 2012. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2013 was due to a benefit of $410,000 received in connection with the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was signed into law in January 2013. The credit related to retroactive tax relief for certain tax law provisions that expired in 2012. As the legislation was signed into law after the end of PAR's 2012 fiscal year, the retroactive effect of the bill is reflected in fiscal year 2013 tax provision. Excluding the retroactive application of this credit, the Company's effective federal rate is 175%. The remaining variance from the federal statutory rate was due to the mix of taxable income generated by the Company's domestic and foreign operations as well as other tax credits and non-deductible expenses. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2012 was due to state and foreign taxes as well as the tax impact of liquidating a foreign subsidiary. 30 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and lines of credit with various commercial banks. Cash used by operating activities of continuing operations was $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to cash provided of $15.1 million for the same period in 2012. In 2013, cash was used in operations mostly due to the Company's change in working capital requirements, primarily associated with decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable due to the timing of payments made to vendors, specifically for inventory purchases and payments associated with the Company's ISR contract with the U.S. Government. This was partially offset by the add back of non-cash charges. In 2012, cash was generated by the add back of non-cash expenses including the accelerated amortization of internally developed software assets that were previously capitalized. The most significant changes to the Companys operating assets and liabilities that impacted cash flow were an increase in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of payments associated with the Companys ISR contract with the U.S. Government, as well as an increase in deferred service revenue due to the timing of billing of customer service contracts. Offsetting these changes was an increase in inventory in support of shipments planned for early 2013. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 versus $247,000 for the same period in 2012. In 2013, capital expenditures of $1.1 million were primarily for purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $4.7 million and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2012, the Company received cash proceeds of $4 million related to the sale of its Logistics Management business, and generated $1.9 million from the maturity of its investments. In addition, $828,000 of the proceeds from the Companys sale of its Logistics Management business remained in escrow as of the end of fiscal 2012. Capital expenditures were $1.9 million and were primarily related to capital investments to support the Companys new hardware products, as well as for purchases of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $3.4 million and was associated with the Companys Hospitality software platforms. 31 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $107,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 versus $1.5 million for the same period in 2012. In 2013, the Company decreased its long-term borrowings by $159,000 and benefited $52,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2012, the Company decreased its long-term borrowings by $1.5 million and benefited $24,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. The Company maintains a credit facility which provides borrowing availability up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2013). This agreement expires in June 2014. At December 31, 2013, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.7% during fiscal year 2013. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In February 2013, the agreement was amended to allow the Company to exclude certain extraordinary or non-recurring non-cash expenses, charges or losses, and certain litigation expenses incurred during the fourth quarter of 2012. The exclusion of these charges was applied to the Companys debt covenant calculation through December 31, 2013. Additionally, as part of this amendment, the Company modified its definition of Earnings before Interest Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA), to exclude certain non-cash charges for the remainder of the agreement. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at December 31, 2013. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. On March 10, 2014, the Company executed a commitment letter with the lenders of its existing credit facility. The commitment initially provides the Company $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in a revolving credit facility. The terms and conditions of the commitment letter are generally consistent with those of the Companys existing credit agreement which will provide the Company with availability under the line of credit up to 36 months from the date of closing. The committed credit facility will be secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company has a $1.1 million mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. In May 2012, the Company amended its mortgage to reduce the fixed interest rate to 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014 and through the maturity date of the loan, the fixed rate will be converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. The annual mortgage payment including interest through October 1, 2014 totals $207,000. 32 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2014, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3-5 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. The Companys future principal payments under its term loan, mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Long-term debt obligations $ 1,084 $ 166 $ 352 $ 382 $ 184 Operating lease 5,349 1,725 1,895 875 854 Total $ 6,433 $ 1,891 $ 2,247 $ 1,257 $ 1,038 33 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Product revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Product revenues include both hardware and software sales. The Company also records service revenues relating to its standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company), when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. For software sales where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, support maintenance, and field and depot repair. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. 34 Table of Contents The individual hardware, service, and software offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, the units of accounting are based on each individual hardware, service, and software sold, and revenue is allocated to each element based on fair value. Fair value is determined using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, or best estimate of selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE or TPE is available. BESP must be determined in a manner that is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the specific elements on a standalone basis. Our best estimate of selling price is established considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, pricing practices with different classes of customers, geographies and through different sales channels and other factors contemplated in negotiating the arrangement with the customer. In situations where PARs solutions contain software that is more than incidental, revenue related to software and software related elements is recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vender specific objective evidence (VSOE). If the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Government Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. 35 Table of Contents Statement of cash flows For purposes of reporting cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments, purchased with a remaining maturity of three months or less, to be cash equivalents. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, PAR cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that PAR has experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when the Company has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility (as defined within ASC 985-20) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. 36 Table of Contents Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two business segments, Hospitality and Government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. With respect to the Government and Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting units, the Company utilizes three different methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches; the guideline public company method and quoted price method. Consistent with the 2012 valuation, the Company did not utilize the discounted cash flow method for its Restaurant reporting unit as this reporting unit no longer carries a goodwill balance. As such, the Company has applied a 50% weight to each of the aforementioned market approaches for this reporting unit. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Companys past annual impairment tests. 37 Table of Contents The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the Company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate of 3% and discount rates ranging from 17% to 28%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. 38 Table of Contents The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Hotel/Resort/Spa and Government reporting units is $6.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 16%. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Hotel /Resort/Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 1% and 27%. The high end growth rate reflects the Companys projected revenues resulting from the release of ATRIO. This software platform will expand the Companys capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. Overall, the projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from ATRIO. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in ATRIO is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit. 39 Table of Contents Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 28% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Companys operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value remeasurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs . These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium. Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 40 Table of Contents