Item 2: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. The Companys Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. 14 The Companys products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global infrastructure and reach as a technology solutions provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide innovative systems, with significant global deployment capability, to its multinational customers. PARs continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with excellent customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding four distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is investing in the market introduction and deployment of ATRIO, its next generation, cloud-based property management software for the Hotel/Resort/Spa market. Second, we are investing in the enhancement of existing software and the development of the next generation of software for the Restaurant market. Third, the Company continues to work on building more robust and extensive third-party distribution channels. Fourth, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. The QSR market, our primary market, continues to perform well for the large, international companies, despite worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty. However, the Company has seen an impact of current economic conditions on smaller, regional QSR organizations, whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in certain regions. These conditions have had and could continue to have an impact on the markets in which the Company's customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Approximately 36% of the Companys revenues are generated by its Government business. The Companys focus is to expand two separate aspects of its Government business: services and solutions. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development staff and processes, the Company is able to consistently win the renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and win new efforts. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years may impact the performance of this business segment. 15 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of its Logistics Management business, PAR Logistics Management Systems Corporation (LMS) to ORBCOMM Inc., including but not limited to accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, intellectual property, and customer contracts. The transaction closed on January 12, 2012. The results of operations of LMS for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 have been recorded as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 2 Discontinued Operations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company reported revenues of $55.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, an increase of 2.6% from the $54.2 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The Companys net income from continuing operations was $1.0 million or $0.07 per diluted share for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 versus $0.7 million or $0.05 per diluted share for the same period in 2011. During the quarter, the Company reported income from discontinued operations of $1.4 million or $0.09 per diluted share versus a loss of $0.3 million or $0.02 per diluted share for the same period in 2011. Results of the quarter ended March 31, 2012 include a gain on the sale of LMS of $2.6 million, recorded as a component of income from discontinued operations for the period. Product revenues were $20.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, a decrease of 7% from the $21.7 million recorded in 2011. This decrease was the result of a decline in domestic sales to McDonalds as their significant technology upgrade program was completed in fiscal year 2011. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in sales of the Companys EverServ SureCheck product to a significant launch customer during the quarter. Further offsetting this decrease was an increase in product sales to Yum! Brands, commensurate with new store rollouts. In addition, international product sales grew 16% primarily to Yum! Brands in Europe as well as an increase in sales to national chain restaurants in Australia. Service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Service revenues were $15.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, a decrease of 1.7% from the $15.6 million reported for the same period in 2011. This decrease was associated with a decline in depot service revenue commensurate with new store upgrades, partially offset by an increase in domestic field service revenue resulting from new service contracts with McDonalds. Lastly, international service revenue increased during the quarter as compared to the same quarter of 2011 as a result of increased international hardware sales. 16 Contract revenues were $20 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared to $16.8 million reported for the same period in 2011. This increase is mostly attributable to the Companys new Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 were 45.6%, an increase from 39.3% for the same period in 2011. This improvement was the result of an increase in software sales driven by the Companys launch of its EverServ SureCheck software. This increase was partially offset by an unfavorable mix in product sales resulting from a decrease in the amount of terminals sold relative to lower margin peripheral devices. Service margins were 31.3% for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, relatively flat to the 31.6% for the same period in 2011. This slight decrease was primarily due to a reduction in higher margin depot service revenue as a result of the recent upgrade programs with customers. This decline was partially offset by an improvement in field service margin resulting from a reduction of third party field expenses. Contract margins were 5.3% for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared to 6% for the same period in 2011. This decrease was due to a less favorable contract mix as a result of the completion of more favorable margin contracts from 2011. The most significant components of contract costs in 2012 and 2011 were labor and fringe benefits. For the first quarter of 2012, labor and fringe benefits were $10.6 million or 56% of contract costs compared to $12.5 million or 79% of contract costs for the same period in 2011. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 were $10.1 million, an increase from the $9.4 million for the same period in 2011. This increase was due to an increase in commission expense associated with the Companys EverServ SureCheck software license sale in the first quarter, as well as an increase in sales and marketing effort associated with the Companys ATRIO software product. Research and development expenses were $3.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, a decrease from the $3.7 million for the same period in 2011. This decrease was associated with a reduction in the use of third party developers. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $153,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared to $205,000 for the same period in 2011. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets that were fully amortized in 2011. 17 Other income, net was $573,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 compared to $28,000 for the same period in 2011. Other income primarily includes unrealized gains on the Companys investments, rental income, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The Company received shares of ORBCOMM Inc. common stock as part of the consideration from the sale of its Logistics Management business to ORBCOMM Inc. The Company has classified this investment as a trading security, and therefore records the fair value adjustment as a component of Other income, net. The increase during the period is primarily associated with the unrealized gain on the Companys investment in ORBCOMM Inc. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $21,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 as compared to $48,000 for the same period in 2011. This reduction is associated with a lower outstanding borrowing in 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011. For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Companys expected effective income tax rate was 41.7%, compared to 37.4% for the same period in 2011. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2012 was due to state and foreign taxes. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2011 was primarily due to state income taxes and various non-deductible expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to cash used of $3.6 million for the same period in 2011. In 2012, cash was generated by the Companys net income plus the add back of non-cash charges, offset by reductions to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant changes to the Companys operating assets and liabilities were the decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of collections of advanced service and maintenance contract billings as well as increases in its deferred revenue related to increased service contracts. This was partially offset by cash used for an increase in inventory in support of future demand as well as payments of accrued salaries and benefits based on the timing of payments. In 2011, cash was generated by the Companys net income plus the add back of non-cash charges, offset by reductions to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant changes to the Companys operating assets and liabilities were associated with payments made to vendors based on the required timing of such payments, as well as payments made to employee benefit programs. These decreases were partially offset by cash generated from increase deferred revenue related to new service contract billings. Cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 versus cash used of $3 million for the same period in 2011. In 2012, the Company received cash proceeds of $4 million related to the sale of its Logistics Management business. Capital expenditures were $494,000 and were primarily for office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $679,000 and was associated with the Companys next generation Hospitality software platforms. The Company also purchased $750,000 of investments during the quarter. In 2011, capital expenditures were $304,000 and were primarily for office and computer equipment. Capitalized software was $2.7 million and was associated with the Companys next generation Hospitality software platforms. 18 Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $462,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2012 versus cash provided of $4.5 million in 2011. In 2012, the Company decreased its long-term debt by $485,000 and benefited $23,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2011, the Company increased its short-term borrowings by $4.9 million in support of its operating cash needs, and decreased its long-term debt by $409,000. The Company also benefited $14,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. The Company maintains a credit facility which provides it with borrowing availability up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.25% at March 31, 2012) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at March 31, 2012). This agreement expires in June 2014. At March 31, 2012, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit, nor did it borrow against this line at anytime during the quarter. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In July 2011, this agreement was amended to exclude specific non-recurring charges recorded by the Company in the second quarter of 2011 from all debt covenant calculations in 2011 and through June 30, 2012. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at March 31, 2012. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, in connection with a prior business acquisition. This loan ($900,000 outstanding as of March 31, 2012) is part of the existing credit facility and provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through August 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.25% at March 31, 2012) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at March 31, 2012). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At March 31, 2012, the notional principal amount totaled $0.9 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 were $14,000 and $31,000, respectively, and were recorded as decreases to interest expense. 19 The Company has a $1.5 million mortgage, collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. During fiscal year 2012, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted None. 20 Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other: Testing Goodwill for Impairme nt, which amends FASB Topic ASC 350, Intangible Assets-Goodwill and Other . Under ASU No. 2011-08, an entity may elect the option to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the first step in the two-step impairment testing process. ASU No. 2011-08 was effective on January 1, 2012. The adoption of ASU No. 2011-08 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendment to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements, in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) , which amends FASB Topic ASC 820, Fair value measurement . ASU No. 2011-04 modifies the existing standard to include disclosure of all transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 asset and liability fair value categories. In addition, ASU No. 2011-04 provides guidance on measuring the fair value of financial instruments managed within a portfolio and the application of premiums and discounts on fair value measurements. ASU No. 2011-04 requires additional disclosure for Level 3 measurements regarding the sensitivity of fair value to changes in unobservable inputs and any interrelationships between those inputs. ASU No. 2011-04 was effective on January 1, 2012. The adoption of ASU No. 2011-04 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, we disclose accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of our critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.