Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. 24 Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Government Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 128,675 Rome, NY Government Research and development 31,900 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 21,300 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 20,500 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 14,900 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,000 as Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Vaughn, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 10,000 Toronto, Canada Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 7,700 The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, NY, which is near Utica, in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 25 PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2011, there were approximately 417 owners of record of the Companys Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2011 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2011 2010 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $ 4.28 $ 6.63 $ 5.30 $ 6.33 Second Quarter $ 3.63 $ 4.99 $ 5.14 $ 7.28 Third Quarter $ 3.04 $ 3.93 $ 4.69 $ 6.20 Fourth Quarter $ 3.22 $ 4.00 $ 5.24 $ 6.92 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Not Required. 26 Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. The Companys Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. 27 The Companys products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing primarily on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global infrastructure and reach as a technology solutions provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide innovative systems, with significant global deployment capability, to its multinational customers. PARs continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with excellent customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding four distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is investing in the market introduction and deployment of ATRIO, its next generation software for the Hotel/Resport/Spa market. Second, we are investing in the enhancement of existing software and the development of the next generation of software for the Restaurant market. Third, the Company continues to work on building more robust and extensive third-party distribution channels. Fourth, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. The QSR market, our primary market, continues to perform well for the large, international companies, despite worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty. However, the Company has seen an impact of current economic conditions on smaller, regional QSR organizations, whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in certain regions. These conditions have had and could continue to have an impact on the markets in which the Company's customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Approximately 30% of the Companys revenues are generated by its Government business. The operational performance of PARs Government segment requires consistently winning new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, and the renewal of expiring contracts. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense spending for the balance of the calendar year may impact the growth of this business segment on a year-over-year basis. 28 Results of Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of the assets of its Logistics Management business, PAR Logistics Management Systems Corporation (LMS) to ORBCOMM Inc., including but not limited to accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, intellectual property, and customer contracts. The transaction closed on January 12, 2012. The results of operations of LMS for fiscal year 2011 have been recorded as discontinued operations in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 2 Discontinued Operations and Note 15 Subsequent Events in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company reported revenues of $229.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of 2.4% from the $235 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Companys net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $13.4 million, or $0.89 loss per diluted share, compared to net income of $5.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share for the same period in 2010. During 2011, the Company reported a loss on discontinued operations of $2.2 million, or $0.15 loss per diluted share associated with its Logistics Management business. This compares to a loss of $1.8 million or $0.12 loss per diluted share for the same period in 2010. The Companys net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $15.5 million, or $1.04 loss per diluted share, compared to net income of $3.1 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, for the same period in 2010. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $91 million, a decrease of 7.8% from the $98.7 million recorded in 2010. This decrease was primarily the result of a decline in domestic sales to McDonalds as their significant North American upgrade program has been completed. Partially offsetting this decline was an increase in domestic sales to Baskin-Robbins, SUBWAY, and YUM! Brands. Lastly, the Company has experienced an increase in international product sales as well as sales made through its dealer channels which have increased 15% and 7%, respectively over 2010. Customer service revenues primarily include installation, software maintenance, training, 24 hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $69.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, a 1.1% decrease from $70.2 million reported for the same period in 2010. This decrease is mostly attributable to a decrease in depot service revenue, commensurate with new store upgrades. This decrease was partially offset by increases in domestic field service revenue associated with the McDonalds hardware upgrade program, as well as an increase in international service revenue to YUM! Brands. 29 Government contract revenues were $68.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, an increase of 4.4% when compared to the $66.1 million recorded in the same period in 2010. This increase was due to multiple new contract wins, including revenue associated with the Companys new (ISR) technologies contract with the U.S. Army. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 36.4%, an increase from 34.9% in the same period in 2010. This improvement was primarily the result of an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold relative to related peripherals, as well as various cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts implemented across the Companys Hospitality businesses. Customer service margins were 18.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 33% for the same period in 2010. This decrease was primarily the result of a charge of $7.7 million recorded in the second quarter of 2011 associated with the write down of service parts inventory related to discontinued products. This charge was recorded as the result of an acceleration of technology upgrade programs by two of the Companys major customers and an overall change in customer requirements as a result of these upgrades. As part of these programs, the Companys customers were required to upgrade their existing hardware in support of new software utilized at their respective restaurants. In addition, this decrease was also the result of a reduction in higher margin depot service revenue as a result of the various customer upgrade programs. Partially offsetting this decrease was an improvement in installation margin resulting from improved utilization of installation personnel. Government contract margins were 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, an increase from 6.4% for the same period in 2010. This increase was due to revenue associated with the Companys first commercial license sale of its full motion video technology. The most significant components of contract costs in 2011 and 2010 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2011, labor and fringe benefits were $45.7 million, or 71% of contract costs, compared to $48.4 million or 78% of contract costs for the same period in 2010. 30 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $35.8 million, a decrease of 6.5% from the $38.3 million expense for the same period in 2010. Total expense for 2011 included non-recurring charges of $595,000 recorded in the second quarter of 2011 related to severance and office closure. Overall selling, general and administrative expenses decreased year over year as a result of the execution of various cost reduction strategies primarily within the Hospitality businesses. Research and development expenses were $13.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of 13% from the $15.9 million recorded in 2010. The decrease was associated with the Company capitalizing the development costs associated with its next generation Hospitality software platforms. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company determined, as a result of the decline in the stock price that occurred during the second quarter, a goodwill impairment triggering event had occurred. The fair value of the Companys common shares declined from $4.60 per share at April 1, 2011 to $3.83 per share at June 30, 2011, resulting in the Company no longer being able to reconcile the aggregate fair value of its reporting units to its market capitalization after consideration of a reasonable control premium. Although there was no significant adverse change to the long term financial outlook of any of its businesses, the Company concluded a triggering event had occurred and as a result, performed additional analyses over the valuation of its reporting units in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recording a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill in the second quarter of 2011. In addition, as part of this goodwill triggering event assessment, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $840,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $939,000 for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2010. Other income, net, was $203,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $640,000 for the same period in 2010. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease is primarily attributable to finance charges collected on a specific outstanding receivable in 2010 that did not recur in 2011. 31 Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowings from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $211,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $352,000 for the same period in 2010. The Company experienced lower average borrowings in 2011 when compared to 2010 and a decrease in interest expense of $101,000 related to its interest rate swap agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Companys effective income tax rate was a benefit of 35.8%, compared to an effective income tax expense rate of 30.1% in 2010. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2011 was primarily due to research credits and state tax benefits, partially offset by an additional valuation allowance necessary related to certain deferred tax assets. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 was primarily due to the reversal of a valuation allowance of $230,000 on certain deferred tax assets as the result of the Companys tax planning strategies and research credits generated. Results of Operations 2010 Compared to 2009 The Company reported revenues of $235 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of 8.9% from the $215.9 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Companys net income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $5.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, compared to net loss of $5.0 million, or $0.35 loss per diluted share for the same period in 2009. During 2010, the Company reported a loss on discontinued operations of $1.8 million, or $0.12 loss per diluted share associated with its Logistics Management business. This compares to a loss of $143,000, or $0.01 loss per diluted share for the same period in 2009. The Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $3.1 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to net loss of $5.2 million, or $0.36 loss per diluted share, for the same period in 2009. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $98.7 million, an increase of 46% from the $67.5 million recorded in 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in sales to McDonalds in fulfillment of a large technology upgrade program. In addition to this increase, sales through the Companys dealer channel increased significantly as compared to 2009. A 27% increase in international product revenue during the year further contributed to growth in 2010. Customer service revenues primarily include installation, software maintenance, training, 24 hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $70.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a 3.6% decrease from $72.9 million reported for the same period in 2009. This decrease is mostly attributable to a decrease in installation and field service revenue as a result of the completion of a specific initiative with a major customer in 2009. These decreases were partially offset by increases in revenue from professional services within the Restaurant market. 32 Government contract revenues were $66.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of 12.5% when compared to the $75.5 million recorded in the same period in 2009. This decrease was due to the completion of certain contracts in 2010 as well as a reduction in pass through revenue that occurred in 2009, but did not recur in 2010. Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 34.9%, an increase from the 33.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. This improvement was primarily the result of an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold relative to related peripherals, as well as various cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts implemented across the Companys Restaurant and Hotel/Resort/Spa markets. Additionally, 2009 product margin was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $944,000 recorded relative to a write-down of inventory associated with discontinued product lines due to a change in customer requirements. Customer service margins were 33.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 23.8% for the same period in 2009. A significant contributor to this variance was a charge of $4.5 million recorded in 2009, primarily associated with the write down of service inventory related to discontinued products in response to certain major customers announcing their initiative to accelerate planned upgrades of their POS systems. Exclusive of the aforementioned charge, fiscal year 2009 service margins were 29.9%, versus 33.0% in the current year. This improvement is the result of cost reduction efforts in the Companys PSMS subsidiary, as well as improvements in international service margins resulting from the execution of various cost reduction strategies. Government contract margins were 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase from 5.5% for the same period in 2009. This increase was due to a reduction in low margin pass through revenue that occurred in 2009, but did not recur in 2010, as well as improved margins associated with contract completions in 2010. The most significant components of contract costs in 2010 and 2009 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2010, labor and fringe benefits were $48.4 million or 78% of contract costs compared to $52.4 million or 73% of contract costs for the same period in 2009. 33 Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $38.3 million, an increase of 9.6% from the $34.9 million for the same period in 2009. Of this increase, $2.8 million is associated with an increase in restaurant sales and marketing expense attributable to the increase in revenue. Increases also relate to the Companys investment in the ATRIO software initiative. These increases were partially offset by a decline in stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses were $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of 16.4% from the $13.6 million recorded in 2009. The increase was the result of increased research and development expenditures in support of the Companys investment in the ATRIO software initiative. These increases were partially offset by cost reductions achieved in outsourcing through strategic relationships. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $939,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 million for 2009. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2010. Other income, net, was $640,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $165,000 for the same period in 2009. Other income primarily includes rental income, income from the sale of certain assets, finance charges, and foreign currency gains and losses. The increase is primarily due to an increase in finance charge income related to a specific outstanding receivable collected during 2010, as well as a gain on the sale of certain assets. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowings from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $352,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $400,000 for the same period in 2009. The Company experienced lower average borrowings in 2010 when compared to 2009. The Company also recognized a decrease in interest expense of $115,000 related to its interest rate swap agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Companys effective income tax expense rate was 30.1%, compared to an effective income tax benefit of 19.7% for the same period in 2009. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2010 is primarily due to the benefit derived from certain federal tax credits, as well as the exclusion of certain foreign income from U.S. taxable income that was taxed by the local jurisdiction at a rate lower than the federal statutory rate. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2009 was primarily the result of the establishment of a valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets, which decreased the tax benefit. 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and lines of credit with various commercial banks. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $16 million for the same period in 2010 and $9.3 million in fiscal year 2009. In 2011, cash was generated by the Companys operating results before the non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment and inventory charges, offset by reductions to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant changes to the Companys operating assets and liabilities were the decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of collections of advanced service and maintenance contract billings. This was partially offset by cash used towards payments of accounts payable and accrued salaries and benefits based on the timing of payments. Cash was also used to support the execution of existing service support contracts with customers. In 2010, cash was generated primarily by the Companys net income and add back of non-cash charges, as well as through the change in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant change to the Companys operating assets and liabilities were an increase in accounts payable based on the timing of vendor payments, offset by an increase in inventory commensurate with forecast requirements for the period. In 2009, cash was generated by the Companys net loss plus the add back of non-cash charges, offset by reductions to changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant changes to the Companys operating assets and liabilities were the reduction of accounts receivable, which was the result of improved collection efforts implemented in 2009, combined with an overall decrease in accounts receivable commensurate with the decrease in revenue as compared to the prior fiscal year. Cash flow was adversely impacted by the reduction in customer deposits from fiscal year 2008 primarily attributable to a significant advance payment received from a Restaurant customer in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 that did not recur in 2009. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, versus $6.0 million for the same period in 2010 and $2.1 million for fiscal year 2009. In 2011, capital expenditures were $896,000 and were primarily related to the purchase of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $7.4 million, an increase from the prior year as a result of investment in the Companys Restaurant and Hotel /Resort / Spa software. In 2010, capital expenditures were $3.8 million and were primarily related to the Companys acquisition of certain technology components to complement its next generation enterprise solution for its restaurants. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $2.1 million, an increase from the prior year, as a result of increased investment in the Companys ATRIO software initiative, a larger portion of which was capitalized. In 2009, capital expenditures were $1.2 million and were primarily related to the purchase of office and computer equipment. Capitalized software costs relating to software development of Hospitality segment products were $845,000, relating to the Companys restaurant software products. 35 Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, versus cash used of $3.2 million for the same period in 2010 and cash used of $7.3 million in fiscal year 2009. In 2011, the Company decreased its long term debt by $1.7 million in accordance with the related payment schedule. The Company also benefited $133,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2010, the Company decreased its short term borrowings by $2 million, as a result of its favorable operating cash flow and decreased its long term debt by $1.4 million in accordance with the related payment schedule. The Company also benefited $551,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. Lastly, the Company purchased $323,000 of treasury stock in 2010. In 2009, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $6.8 million and decreased its long-term debt by $1.1 million. The Company also benefited $547,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. On June 6, 2011, the Company executed a new credit agreement with its lenders. This short-term credit facility provides the Company borrowing availability up to $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million). This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.31% at December 31, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2011). This agreement expires in June 2014. At December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any outstanding balance on this line of credit. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 2.0% during fiscal year 2011. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. In July 2011, this agreement was amended to exclude specific non-recurring charges recorded by the Company in the second quarter of 2011 from all debt covenant calculations in 2011 and through June 30, 2012. The Company is in compliance with these amended covenants at December 31, 2011. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, in connection with a prior business acquisition. The agreement provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.31% at December 31, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at December 31, 2011). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At December 31, 2011, the notional principal amount totaled $1.4 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $101,000, $115,000 and $146,000, respectively and were recorded as decreases to interest expense. The Company has a $1.4 million mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. 36 The Companys future principal payments under its term loan, mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Long-term debt obligations $ 2,743 $ 1,494 $ 315 $ 354 $ 580 Operating lease 6,357 2,131 3,029 835 362 Total $ 9,100 $ 3,625 $ 3,344 $ 1,189 $ 942 During fiscal year 2012, the Company anticipates its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $3 million. The Company does not usually enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 37 Critical Accounting Policies The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Product revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Product revenues include both hardware and software sales. The Company also records service revenues relating to its standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company), when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. For software sales where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, support maintenance, and field and depot repair. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. 38 The individual product and service offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual product or service sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, the units of accounting are based on each individual product and service sold, and revenue is allocated to each element based on vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE of fair value for each individual product and service is based on separate individual prices of these products and services. The sales price used to establish fair value is the sales price of the element when it is sold individually in a separate arrangement and not as a separate element in a multiple element arrangement. Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. 39 Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. Software development costs incurred after establishing technological feasibility are capitalized and amortized over the estimated economic life when the product is available for general release to customers. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two business segments, Hospitality and Government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. 40 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company determined as a result of the decline in the stock price that occurred during the second quarter, a goodwill impairment triggering event had occurred. The fair value of the Companys common shares declined from $4.60 per share at April 1, 2011 to $3.83 per share at June 30, 2011, resulting in the Company no longer being able to reconcile the aggregate fair value of its reporting units to its market capitalization after consideration of a reasonable control premium. Although there was no significant adverse change to the long term financial outlook of any of its businesses, the Company concluded a triggering event had occurred and as a result, performed additional analyses over the valuation of its reporting units in accordance with the relevant accounting rules, recording a non-cash impairment charge of $20.2 million to its goodwill in the second quarter of 2011. In addition, as part of this goodwill triggering event assessment, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $580,000 associated with its indefinite lived intangible assets. Following the impairment charges, the Restaurant reporting unit did not carry any residual goodwill, while the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit's remaining goodwill was $6.1 million. The fair value of the Government reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value; therefore, no goodwill impairment was noted. The Company utilizes three methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. These methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and two market approaches, namely the guideline public company method and quoted price method. The discounted cash flow method was weighted 80% in the fair value calculation, while the public company method and quoted price method were weighted each at 10% of the fair value calculation. The valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Companys past annual impairment tests. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the Company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. 41 Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate of 3% (beyond five years) and discount rates ranging from 21% to 26%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are two methodologies considered under the market approach: the public company method and the quoted price method. The public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for each method. The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Hotel/Resort/Spa and Government reporting units is $6.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 6%. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. 42 Hotel /Resort/Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 5% and 46%. The high end growth rate reflects the Companys projected revenues resulting from the release of the Companys next generation software platform, ATRIO. This software platform will expand the Companys capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. The projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. The Company has utilized gross margin estimates materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from ATRIO. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in ATRIO is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 26% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Companys operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value remeasurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs. These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium. 43 Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.