Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties The following are the principal facilities (by square footage) of the Company: Location Industry Segment Floor Area Principal Operations Number of Sq. Ft. New Hartford, NY Hospitality Government Principal executive offices, manufacturing, research and development laboratories, computing facilities 174,450 Rome, NY Government Research and development 30,800 Stowe, VT Hospitality Sales, service and research and development 21,300 Sydney, Australia Hospitality Sales and service 14,400 Las Vegas, NV Hospitality Service 12,000 Boca Raton, FL Hospitality Research and development 11,470 Markham, Ontario Hospitality Research and development 11,100 Boulder, CO Hospitality Service 10,700 24 Table of Contents The Companys headquarters and principal business facility is located in New Hartford, NY, which is near Utica, in central New York State. The Company owns its principal facility and adjacent space in New Hartford. All of the other facilities are leased for varying terms. Substantially all of the Companys facilities are fully utilized, well maintained, and suitable for use. The Company believes its present and planned facilities and equipment are adequate to service its current and immediately foreseeable business needs. 25 Table of Contents Item 3: Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock, par value $.02 per share, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE symbol - PAR). At December 31, 2014, there were approximately 375 owners of record of the Companys Common Stock, plus those owners whose stock certificates are held by brokers. The following table shows the high and low stock prices for the two years ended December 31, 2014 as reported by New York Stock Exchange: 2014 2013 Period Low High Low High First Quarter $ 4.65 $ 5.50 $ 4.11 $ 5.10 Second Quarter $ 4.12 $ 4.99 $ 3.85 $ 4.89 Third Quarter $ 3.78 $ 5.24 $ 4.01 $ 5.27 Fourth Quarter $ 4.28 $ 6.18 $ 4.83 $ 5.92 The Company has not paid cash dividends on its Common Stock, and its Board of Directors presently intends to continue to retain earnings for reinvestment in growth opportunities. Accordingly, it is anticipated no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Not Required. 27 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of segments of the hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, an expected increase or decrease in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including: a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. The Company's Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies, as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense. 28 Table of Contents The Company's products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding its Hospitality businesses through its product investments and continued development of its cloud based software applications. These products include its Brink POS software, with integrated features that include loyalty at its core, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, mobile dashboard, and much more. PARs strategy is also focused on the continued feature expansion and deployment of ATRIO, its cloud-based software for the Hotel/Resort/Spa markets. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications and the development of the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. However, the Company has seen certain market conditions impact smaller specific QSR organizations, whose business is slowing due to the continued lack of consumer confidence in those regions. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The Company continues to assess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing service contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently win renewal of expiring contracts, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal/state agencies with systems integration, products and highly-specialized services. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian and contract), procurement cycles and spending levels for the next several years, may impact the performance of this business. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations 2014 Compared to 2013 The Company reported revenues of $233.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, a decrease of 3.2% from the $241.4 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Companys net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $3,651,000 or $0.24 loss per share, compared to net income from continuing operations of $569,000, or $0.04 per diluted share for the same period in 2013. During 2013, the Company reported a loss from discontinued operations of $211,000, or $0.01 loss per share, associated with its former Logistics Management business. During 2014, PAR did not record any income or loss from discontinued operations. The Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $358,000, or $0.02 per diluted share. Product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $87.2 million, a decrease from the $90.8 million recorded for the same period in 2013. T his decrease was primarily the result of decreased sales to certain major customers as large rollouts were completed in fiscal 2013. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in sales made through the Companys worldwide dealer network as well as an increase in software sales, which have improved 23% year over year. Service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, 24 hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $58.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, a 4.6% decrease from $61.5 million reported for the same period in 2013. The decrease is mostly the result of a decline in field service revenue as certain customers transitioned to alternative service support delivery models as well as a decline in installation revenue consummate with lower product revenue. This decline is partially offset by an increase associated with the Company's depot repair operation, resulting from new contracts. Government contract revenues were $87.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, a decrease of 1.5% when compared to the $89.0 million recorded in 2013. This decrease is attributable to the completion of certain fixed price technical services contracts that were completed in 2013 and early 2014. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenue from the Companys Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems integration contract. 30 Table of Contents Product margins for the year ended December 31, 2014 were 31.8%, an increase from 31.4% in the same period in 2013. This increase was driven by a favorable product mix resulting from increased software license revenue. Customer service margins were 31.1% for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 29% for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with a favorable mix in service offerings compared to 2013. Government contract margins were 6.1% for the year ended December 31, 2014, a decrease from the 7.2% for the same period in 2013. The most significant components of contract costs in 2014 and 2013 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2014, labor and fringe benefits were $37.4 million, or 45% of contract costs, compared to $40.2 million or 51% of contract costs for the same period in 2013. This decrease in percentage is mostly attributable to the higher amount of material and subcontract revenues in 2014 associated with the Company's ISR systems integration contract with the U.S. Army. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $37.3 million, a decrease of 1.6% from the $37.9 million recorded for the same period in 2013. The decrease is attributable to the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its Hospitality operations. Partially offsetting the decrease were increases in expenses associated with the acquisition of Brink Software, equity based compensation expense and severance related expenses. Research and development expenses were $16.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of 2.6% from the $15.6 million recorded in 2013. This increase was primarily related to an increase in hardware development expenses associated with new product developments, as well as an increase in software development expenses primarily associated with the acquisition of Brink Software. During 2014, the Company recorded $279,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software. The Company did not record any amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets in 2013. Other income, net, was $304,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $506,000 for the same period in 2013. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, strategic product development partnerships, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The income in 2014 is primarily due to rental income. The income in 2013 was primarily due to income related to strategic product development partnerships within the Companys Hospitality business and lower market volatility within the Companys deferred compensation plan. 31 Table of Contents Interest expense represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowings from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $136,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $60,000 for the same period in 2013. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowings in 2014 versus 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Companys effective income tax rate was expense of 78.0%, compared to a benefit of 370% in 2013. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2014 were due to the mix of taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions and providing for income taxes on the repatriation of foreign earnings. In 2014, the Company repatriated earnings through the payment of a $5.0 million dividend by its Chinese subsidiary to its domestic parent company, resulting in income tax expense of $2.2 million on those earnings. The Company considers this a one-time repatriation to help finance the Brink acquisition and further earnings are considered permanently reinvested. The variance from the federal statutory rate in 2013 was due to a benefit of $410,000 received in connection with the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was signed into law in January 2013. The credit related to retroactive tax relief for certain tax law provisions that expired in 2012. As the legislation was signed into law after the end of PAR's 2012 fiscal year, the retroactive effect of the bill is reflected in fiscal year 2013 tax provision. Excluding the retroactive application of this credit, the Company's effective federal rate is 175%. The remaining variance from the federal statutory rate was due to the mix of taxable income generated by the Company's domestic and foreign operations as well as other tax credits and non-deductible expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and a line of credit with its bank. Cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations was $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to cash used of $2.8 million for the same period in 2013. 32 Table of Contents In 2014, cash generated from operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital. Significant operating cash flow components include cash used to procure inventory required for planned deployments in 2015, as well as cash used through an increase in receivables resulting from significant sales volume recorded late in fiscal year 2014. Operating cash flow was generated by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses mainly due to the timing of vendor payments associated with the aforementioned growth in inventory and other amounts owed to vendors. Cash was also generated through the increase in customer deposits associated with the Companys Hospitality segment. In 2013, cash was used in operations mostly due to the Company's change in working capital requirements, primarily associated with decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable due to the timing of payments made to vendors, specifically for inventory purchases and payments associated with the Company's ISR contract with the U.S. Government. This was partially offset by the add back of non-cash charges. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $10.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 versus $5.8 million for the same period in 2013. In 2014, the first installment payment associated with the purchase of Brink Software Inc. accounted for approximately $5.0 million of the investing capital. Additionally, capital expenditures of $2.1 million were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $2.9 million and was used for investments in many of the Companys Hospitality software platforms. In 2013, capital expenditures of $1.1 million were primarily for purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $4.7 million and was associated with investments for the Companys Hospitality software platforms. Cash generated from financing activities from continuing operations was $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 versus cash used of $107,000 for the same period in 2013. In 2014, the Company borrowed $5.0 million on its credit facility in connection with the purchase of Brink Software Inc., and decreased its long term borrowings by $165,000 . In 2013, the Company decreased its long-term borrowings by $159,000 and benefited $52,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. During fiscal year 2013 and through June 4, 2014, t he Company maintained a credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit (with the option to increase to $30.0 million), which expired in June 2014. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or a t the bank's prime lending rate. This credit facility was secured by certain assets of the Company. 33 Table of Contents On June 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its then existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of the facility through June 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior f acility. This facility provided the Company with capital of up to $20.0 million (with the option to increase to $30.0 million) in the form of a revolving line o f credit. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or a t the bank's prime lending rate. On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. The terms of the new agreement provide for up to $25 million of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.25% at December 31, 2014) or, at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.5% 2.0%). At December 31, 2014, the Company had an outstanding balance of approximately $5.0 million on this line of credit at a rate of 2.19%. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 2.64% during fiscal year 2014. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. The Company was in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2014. On March 19, 2015, the Company amended its existing Credit Facility to reduce the EBITDA requirement and extended the fixed charge coverage ratio. The amendment provides the Company flexibility to continue investing in the Companys future product offerings while maintaining certain covenant thresholds as defined in the amendment. The Company anticipates it will be in compliance with its covenants throughout fiscal year 2015. 34 Table of Contents In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate, with a balance of $919,000 and $1,084,000 at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate was 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014, the fixed rate was converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. Effective November 1, 2014, the Company entered into an agreement that fixed the interest rate at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual mortgage payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $206,000. In connection with the acquisition of Brink Software on September 18, 2014, the Company recorded indebtedness to the former owners of Brink under the stock purchase agreement. At December 31, 2014, the principal balance of the note payable was $5.0 million and it had a carrying value of $4.8 million. The carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of acquisition. The note does not bear interest and repayment terms are $3.0 million payable on the first anniversary of close, September 18, 2015, and $2.0 million payable on the second anniversary of close, September 18, 2016. During fiscal year 2015, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $1.0 million to $3.0 million. The Company does not routinely enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, supports the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 35 Table of Contents The Companys future principal payments under its stock purchase agreement with Brink, mortgage and operating leases are as follows (in thousands): Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 5,739 $ 3,173 $ 2,188 $ 378 $ - Operating lease 7,035 1,821 2,487 1,507 1,220 Total $ 12,774 $ 4,994 $ 4,675 $ 1,885 $ 1,220 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and subjective interpretations of accounting principles that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. The Company believes its use of estimates and underlying accounting assumptions adhere to GAAP and are consistently applied. Valuations based on estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and adequacy on a consistent basis throughout the Company. Primary areas where financial information of the Company is subject to the use of estimates, assumptions and the application of judgment include revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, accounting for business combinations, contingent consideration, goodwill and intangible assets, and taxes. Revenue Recognition Policy Our Hospitality groups revenues consist of sales of the Companys standard point-of-sale and property management systems of the Hospitality segment. We derive revenue from the following sources: (1) hardware sales, (2) software license agreements, including sold as a perpetual license and sold as a service, (3) professional services, (4) hosting services and (5) post-contract customer support ("PCS"). 36 Table of Contents We recognize revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. Hardware Revenue recognition on hardware sales occurs upon delivery to the customer site (or when shipped for systems that are not installed by the Company) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Software Revenue recognition on software sales generally occurs upon delivery to the customer, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is probable. For software sales sold as a perpetual license and as a service, where the Company is the sole party that has the proprietary knowledge to install the software, revenue is recognized upon installation and when the system is ready to go live. Service Service revenue consists of installation and training services, field and depot repair, subscription software products, associated software maintenance, and software related hosted services. Installation and training service revenue are based upon standard hourly/daily rates as well as contracted prices with the customer, and revenue is recognized as the services are performed. Support maintenance and field and depot repair are provided to customers either on a time and materials basis or under a maintenance contract. Services provided on a time and materials basis are recognized as the services are performed. Service revenues from maintenance contracts are recorded as deferred revenue when billed to the customer and are recognized ratably over the underlying contract period. Software sold as a service is recognized based on the contracted price of its contract term. PAR frequently enters into multiple-element arrangements with its customers including hardware, software, professional consulting services and maintenance support services. For arrangements involving multiple deliverables, when deliverables include software and non-software products and services, PAR evaluates and separates each deliverable to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting based on the following criteria: (a) the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the contract includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of PAR. 37 Table of Contents The individual hardware, service, and software offerings that are included in arrangements with our customers are identified and priced separately to the customer based upon the stand alone price for each individual hardware, service, or software sold in the arrangement irrespective of the combination of products and services which are included in a particular arrangement. As such, overall consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the unit's relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the Company uses a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to each deliverable: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE), and (iii) best estimate of selling price (BESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. VSOE is established for our software maintenance services to establish selling prices for our non-software related services, which include hardware maintenance, non-software related professional services, and transaction services. The Company uses BESP to allocate revenue when we are unable to establish VSOE or TPE of selling price. BESP is primarily used for elements such as products that are not consistently priced within a narrow range. The Company determines BESP for a deliverable by considering multiple factors including product and customer class, geography, average discount, and management's historical pricing practices. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and software elements are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the undelivered maintenance and other services elements are recognized as the services are provided or on a straight-line basis over the service period. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, revenue is not recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery and acceptance generally occur in the same reporting period. In situations where PARs solutions contain software and software related services (generally PCS and professional services), revenue is recognized in accordance with authoritative guidance on software revenue recognition. For the software and software-related elements of such transactions, revenue is allocated based on the relative fair value of each element, and fair value is determined by vender specific objective evidence (VSOE), where available. If VSOE is not available for all elements, we will use the residual method to separate the elements as long as we have VSOE for the undelivered elements. If the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers the revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. 38 Table of Contents Government Contracts The Companys contract revenues generated by the Government segment result primarily from contract services performed for the U.S. Government under a variety of cost-plus fixed fee, time-and-material, and fixed-price contracts. Revenue on cost-plus fixed fee contracts is recognized based on allowable costs for labor hours delivered, as well as other allowable costs plus the applicable fee. Revenue on time and material contracts is recognized by multiplying the number of direct labor hours delivered in the performance of the contract by the contract billing rates and adding other direct costs as incurred. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered, which approximates the straight-line basis of the life of the contract. The Companys obligation under these contracts is to provide labor hours to conduct research or to staff facilities with no other deliverables or performance obligations. Anticipated losses on all contracts are recorded in full when identified. Unbilled accounts receivable are stated in the Companys consolidated financial statements at their estimated realizable value. Contract costs, including indirect expenses, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between the Company and U.S. Government representatives. Accounts Receivable-Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are based on estimates of probable losses related to accounts receivable balances. The establishment of allowances requires the use of judgment and assumptions regarding probable losses on receivable balances. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and appropriate reserves have been established, PAR cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that PAR has experienced in the past. Thus, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be required. 39 Table of Contents Inventories The Companys inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company uses certain estimates and judgments and considers several factors including product demand, changes in customer requirements and changes in technology to provide for excess and obsolescence reserves to properly value inventory. Capitalized Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the development of computer software used in its Hospitality segment. Software development costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are charged to operations and included in research and development costs. The technological feasibility of a computer software product is established when the Company has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. Software development costs incurred after establishing feasibility (as defined within ASC 985-20) are capitalized and amortized on a product-by-product basis when the product is available for general release to customers. Annual amortization, charged to cost of sales when the product is available for general release to customers, is computed using the greater of (a) the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the product, generally three to seven years or (b) the ratio that current gross revenues for a product bear to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for that product. Accounting for Business Combinations The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their respective fair values on the date of acquisition. The fair value of the consideration paid is assigned to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded to goodwill. Intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Fair value determinations and useful life estimates are based on, among other factors, estimates of expected future cash flows from revenues of the intangible assets acquired, estimates of appropriate discount rates used to present value expected future cash flows, estimated useful lives of the intangible assets acquired and other factors. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates the Company has made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and future expectations. For these and other reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results. 40 Table of Contents Contingent Consideration The Company determines the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration using a discounted cash flow method, with significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 fair value measurement as defined in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. The significant inputs in the Level 3 measurement not supported by market activity included the Companys probability assessments of expected future cash flows related to the Companys acquisition of Brink during the contingent consideration period, appropriately discounted considering the uncertainties associated with the obligation, and calculated in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreement. The liabilities for the contingent consideration are established at the time of the acquisition and will be evaluated on a quarterly basis based on additional information as it becomes available. Any change in the fair value adjustment is recorded in the earnings of that period. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations may result from changes in probability assumptions with respect to the likelihood of achieving the various contingent payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in the inputs noted above in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. The Company operates in two business segments, Hospitality and Government. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the sub-segment level (referred to as a reporting unit). The three reporting units utilized by the Company for its impairment testing are: Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa, and Government. Goodwill is assigned to a specific reporting unit at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been assigned to a specific reporting unit, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting units fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment, at which time a second step would be performed to measure the amount of impairment. The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated impairment. 41 Table of Contents The Company utilizes different methodologies in performing its goodwill impairment test. For both the Government and Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting units, these methodologies include both an income approach, namely a discounted cash flow method, and multiple market approaches; the guideline public company method, quoted price method and merger and acquisition method (Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit only). Aside from the merger and acquisition method utilized in 2014 for the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit, the valuation methodologies and weightings used in the current year are generally consistent with those used in the Companys past annual impairment tests. The discounted cash flow method derives a value by determining the present value of a projected level of income stream, including a terminal value. This method involves the present value of a series of estimated future cash flows at the valuation date by the application of a discount rate, one which a prudent investor would require before making an investment in the equity of the Company. The Company considers this method to be most reflective of a market participants view of fair value given the current market conditions, as it is based on the Companys forecasted results and, therefore, established its weighting at 80% of the fair value calculation. Key assumptions within the Companys discounted cash flow model utilized for its annual impairment test included projected financial operating results, a long term growth rate of 3% and discount rates ranging from 17.5% to 25%, depending on the reporting unit. As stated above, as the discounted cash flow method derives value from the present value of a projected level of income stream, a modification to the Companys projected operating results including changes to the long term growth rate could impact the fair value. The present value of the cash flows is determined using a discount rate based on the capital structure and capital costs of comparable public companies, as well as company-specific risk premium, as identified by the Company. A change to the discount rate could impact the fair value determination. The market approach is a generally-accepted way of determining a value indication of a business, business ownership interest, security or intangible asset by using one or more methods that compare the subject to similar businesses, business ownership interests, securities or intangible assets that have been sold. There are three methodologies considered under the market approach: the merger and acquisition method, the public company method and the quoted price method. 42 Table of Contents The merger & acquisition method, public company method and quoted price method of appraisal are based on the premise that pricing multiples of publicly traded companies can be used as a tool to be applied in valuing closely held companies. The mechanics of the method require the use of the stock price in conjunction with other factors to create a pricing multiple that can be used, with certain adjustments, to apply against the subjects similar factor to determine an estimate of value for the subject company. The Company considered these methods appropriate as they provide an indication of fair value as supported by current market conditions. The Company established its weighting at 10% of the fair value calculation for the public company method and quoted price method for the Government reporting unit and weightings at 10%, 5% and 5% of the fair value calculation for the merger and acquisition method, public company method and quoted price method for the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit, respectively. The most critical assumption underlying the market approaches utilized by the Company are the comparable companies utilized. Each market approach described above estimates revenue and earnings multiples for the Company based on its comparable companies. As such, a change to the comparable companies could have an impact on the fair value determination. The amount of goodwill carried by the Restaurant, Hotel/Resort/Spa and Government reporting units is $10.3 million, $6.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by approximately 14%. The estimated fair value of the Government reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. Hotel /Resort/Spa: In deriving its fair value estimates, the Company has utilized key assumptions built on the current core business adjusted to reflect anticipated revenue increases from continued investment in its next generation software. These assumptions, specifically those included within the discounted cash flow estimate, are comprised of the revenue growth rate, gross margin, operating expenses, working capital requirements, and depreciation and amortization expense. The Company has utilized annual revenue growth rates ranging between 2% and 54%. The high end growth rate reflects the Companys projected revenues resulting from the release of ATRIO. This software platform will expand the Companys capabilities into new markets. The Company believes these estimates are reasonable given the size of the overall market which it will enter, combined with the projected market share the Company expects to achieve. Overall, the projected revenue growth rates ultimately trend to an estimated long term growth rate of 3%. 43 Table of Contents The Company has utilized gross margin estimates materially consistent with historical gross margins achieved. Estimates of operating expenses, working capital requirements and depreciation and amortization expense utilized for this reporting unit are generally consistent with actual historical amounts, adjusted to reflect its continued investment and projected revenue growth from ATRIO. The Company believes utilization of actual historical results adjusted to reflect its continued investment in ATRIO is an appropriate basis supporting the fair value of the Hotel/Resort/Spa reporting unit. Lastly, the Company utilized a discount rate of approximately 25% for this reporting unit. This estimate was derived through a combination of current risk-free interest rate data, financial data from companies that PAR has deemed as its competitors, and was based on volatility between the Companys historical financial projections and actual results achieved. The current economic conditions and the continued volatility in the U.S. and in many other countries in which the Company operates could contribute to decreased consumer confidence and continued economic uncertainty which may adversely impact the Companys operating performance. Although the Company has seen an improvement in the markets which it serves, the continued volatility in these markets could have an impact on purchases of the Companys products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Reductions in these results could have a material adverse impact on the underlying estimates used in deriving the fair value of the Companys reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test or could result in a triggering event requiring a fair value re-measurement, particularly if the Company is unable to achieve the estimates of revenue growth indicated in the preceding paragraphs . These conditions may result in an impairment charge in future periods. The Company has reconciled the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the consolidated Company, including a reasonable control premium. Taxes The Company has significant amounts of deferred tax assets that are reviewed for recoverability and valued accordingly. These assets are evaluated by using estimates of future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Valuations related to tax accruals and assets can be impacted by changes to tax codes, changes in statutory tax rates and the Companys estimates of its future taxable income levels. 44 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report for details of New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.