Item 2: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, will, or expect, we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot assure you that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PARs technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and professional/lifecycle support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, luxury hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and specialty retailers. The Companys Government segment provides technical expertise in the contract development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal, state, and local governmental organizations as well as information technology and communications support services to the U.S. Department of Defense, delivering comprehensive and sophisticated support for communication and network operations worldwide. Lastly, PARs Logistics Management segment provides innovative asset monitoring and tracking systems for customers in the road, rail, and transit markets by providing advanced integrated solutions for all types of refrigerated and dry assets. 11 The Companys products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing primarily on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PARs global infrastructure and reach as a technology solutions provider to hospitality customers is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide innovative systems, with significant global deployment capability, to its multinational customers such as McDonalds, Yum! Brands, CKE Restaurants and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. PARs continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions and services with excellent customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. The Company is focused on expanding three distinct parts of its Hospitality businesses. First, it is making significant investments in developing next generation software for its luxury hotel and restaurant markets. Second, the Company continues to work on building a more robust and extensive distribution channel. Lastly, as the Companys customers continue to expand in international markets, PAR has created an international infrastructure focused on that expansion. In regards to the current economic conditions, the Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) market continues to perform well for the large international companies; however, the Company has seen an impact on the regional QSR organizations whose business is slowing because of higher unemployment and lack of consumer confidence in specific domestic regions. These conditions have had and could continue to have an impact on the markets in which the Company's customers operate, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. The Company is currently assisting one of its large international customers as they execute an aggressive upgrade schedule to their in-store technology. In addition, the Company sees an improvement in the pipeline of business with its second tier customers. Approximately 30% of the Companys revenues are generated by its government business. The operational performance of PARs Government segment translates into consistently winning new contracts, extended contracts, and renewed contracts. PAR provides its clients the technical expertise necessary to operate and maintain complex technology systems utilized by government organizations. The Company experienced lower than expected revenues during the first three months of 2011 as a result of delays in new contract starts due to the Congressional impasse on the Government Fiscal Year 2011 budget and lower pass-though revenues. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense spending for the balance of the calendar year may impact the growth of this business segment on a year-over-year basis. PARs Logistics Management business continues to add new accounts. Although the Company is experiencing the difficulties of an extended adoption phase of its technology by the transport industry, it continues to expand its customer base in the refrigerated and dry van markets. As the market recognizes the value proposition associated with the real time use of location and environmental information in both asset management and cargo quality assurance, the Company believes it is well positioned in this emerging market. 12 The economic conditions in the U.S., and in many other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to higher unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending and/or declining business and consumer confidence. These factors could also have a material adverse impact on the Company's significant estimates, specifically the fair value of the Company's reporting units used in support of its annual goodwill impairment test. The Company has consistently determined the fair value of its reporting units using primarily a discounted cash flow method, which is based on certain assumptions such as projected operating results, growth rates and discount rates. The Company completed its annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and concluded that no impairment existed. The Company re-evaluated the assumptions utilized in its annual impairment test and determined they remained appropriate based on the Companys actual results to date as well as communication it has received from its customers relative to their planned capital investments. There were no indicators of impairment during the period ended March 31, 2011, so the Company did not perform an impairment review of goodwill during the current quarter. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 The Company reported revenues of $55.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a decrease of 4% from the $58.1 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. The Companys net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 was $404,000, or $0.03 diluted earnings per share, compared to net income of $582,000 or $0.04 diluted earnings per share for the same period in 2010. Product revenues were $22.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, an increase of 8% from the $21.3 million recorded in 2010. This growth was the result of increases in sales made to the Companys channel partners as well as increases in sales to Subway and Yum! Brands during the quarter. Further contributing to this growth was an 18% increase in international sales, driven primarily by sales to McDonalds International. Lastly, the Company experienced an increase in product revenue associated with its Logistics Management business, which continues to add new accounts. Customer service revenue primarily includes installation, software maintenance, training, twenty-four hour help desk support and various depot and on-site service options. Customer service revenues were $16.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a decrease of 16% from the $19.2 million reported for the same period in 2010. This decrease is mostly associated with a decrease in installation revenue, specifically with McDonalds as they continue to utilize other systems integrators to execute on their aggressive technology upgrade objective. This decrease was partially offset by increases in field service revenue associated with the Companys Restaurant business, as well as an increase in service revenue associated with the Companys Logistics Management business. 13 Contract revenues were $16.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a decrease of 5% when compared to the $17.6 million for the same period in 2010. This decrease was the result of funding delays on various contracts with the Department of Defense. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 were 38.5 %, an increase from 32.3% for the same period in 2010. This increase was associated with an improved product mix resulting from an increase in the volume of terminals sold as compared to peripheral hardware, as well as through cost reduction and manufacturing efficiency efforts executed by the Companys Restaurant business. Customer service margins were 31.6% for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to 32.2% for the same period in 2010. This decrease is mostly attributable to the aforementioned decrease in installation revenue as noted above. Contract margins were 6% for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the 5.9% earned for the same period in 2010. The most significant components of contract costs in 2011 and 2010 were labor and fringe benefits. For 2011, labor and fringe benefits were $12.5 million or 79% of contract costs compared to $13.1 million or 79% of contract costs for the same period in 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 were $9.9 million, an increase from the $9.5 million for the same period in 2010. This increase was primarily associated with an increase in international sales and marketing investments in support of the Companys overall growth strategies. Research and development expenses were $4.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, an increase from the $3.4 million for the same period in 2010. The increase was the result of increased research and development expenditures in support of the Companys next generation software for its Hospitality businesses, as well as increases associated with the growth of its Logistics Management business. Amortization of identifiable intangible assets was $205,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to $234,000 for the same period in 2010. This decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in 2010. 14 Other income, net, was $28,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 compared to $141,000 for the same period in 2010. Other income primarily includes rental income, finance charges and foreign currency gains and losses. The decrease is associated with a decrease in foreign currency gains during the period. Interest expense primarily represents interest charged on the Companys short-term borrowing requirements from banks and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $48,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 as compared to $71,000 for the same period in 2010. The decrease is due to a lower average borrowing rate in 2011 as compared to 2010 as well as a more favorable fair value adjustment associated with the Companys interest rate swap in 2011 as compared to 2010. For the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, the Companys expected effective income tax rate based on projected pre-tax income was 37.1% and 38.2%, respectively. The variance from the federal statutory rate was primarily due to state income taxes and various nondeductible expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash used in operations was $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 compared to cash provided by operations of $6.2 million for the same period in 2010. In 2011, cash was used for payments made to vendors based on the required timing of such payments, as well as payments made to employee benefit programs. These decreases were partially offset by cash generated through improved collection of accounts receivable. In 2010, cash was generated primarily by collections of accounts receivable and an increase in accrued expenses based on the timing of amounts owed to third parties. Cash used in investing activities was $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 versus $2.3 million for the same period in 2010. In 2011, capital expenditures were $314,000 and were primarily related to the acquisition of manufacturing, office and computer equipment. Capital expenditures in 2010 were $2.1 million and were related to the Companys acquisition of certain technology components to complement its next generation enterprise solution for its Restaurant business. For the period ended March 31, 2011, capitalized software costs were $2.7 million and were primarily associated with the Companys next generation Hospitality software platforms. In 2010, capitalized software costs of $128,000 were primarily associated with the Companys Hospitality segment products. Cash provided by financing activities was $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 versus cash used of $2.1 million in 2010. In 2011, the Company increased its short-term borrowings by $4.9 million, decreased its long-term debt by $409,000 and also benefited $14,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. In 2010, the Company decreased its short-term borrowings by $2 million, decreased its long-term debt by $332,000 and also benefited $238,000 from the exercise of employee stock options. 15 The Company has a credit agreement with a bank under which the Company has a borrowing availability up to $20 million in the form of a line of credit. This agreement allows the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.26% at March 31, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at March 31, 2011). This agreement expires in June 2011. At March 31, 2011, the Company had $4.9 million in borrowings outstanding under this agreement. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was 1.9% during the first quarter of 2011. This agreement contains certain loan covenants including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The Company is in compliance with these covenants at March 31, 2011. This credit facility is secured by certain assets of the Company. The Company borrowed $6 million under an unsecured term loan agreement, executed as an amendment to one of its then bank line of credit agreements, in connection with a prior business acquisition. The loan provides for interest only payments in the first year and escalating principal payments through 2012. The loan bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (1.26% at March 31, 2011) or at the banks prime lending rate (3.25% at March 31, 2011). The terms and conditions of the line of credit agreement described in the preceding paragraph also apply to the term loan. On March 11, 2011, the Company executed a commitment letter with the lenders of its existing credit facility. The commitment initially provides the Company $20 million (with the option to increase to $30 million) in a working capital line of credit. The terms and conditions of the commitment letter are consistent with those of the Companys existing credit agreement, which will provide the Company with availability under the line of credit up to 36 months from the date of closing. The committed credit facility will be secured by certain assets of the Company. The commitment letter expires on June 16, 2011. The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement associated with the above $6 million loan, with principal and interest payments due through August 2012. At March 31, 2011, the notional principal amount totaled $2.6 million. This instrument was utilized by the Company to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility. The Company did not adopt hedge accounting, but rather records the fair market value adjustments through the consolidated statements of operations each period. The associated fair value adjustment for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $31,000 and is included as a decrease to interest expense. The Company has a $1.5 million mortgage, collateralized by certain real estate. The annual mortgage payment including interest totals $222,000. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% and matures in 2019. 16 During fiscal year 2011, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will be approximately $7 to $8 million. The Company does not enter into long term contracts with its major Hospitality segment customers. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and the actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonalds and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Companys liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash and line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Companys future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Companys sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in managements opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010, FASB issued ASU 2010-28 IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350) (ASU 2010-28). Topic 350 is amended to clarify the requirement to test for impairment of goodwill. Topic 350 has required that goodwill be tested for impairment if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Under ASU 2010-28, when the carrying amount of a reporting unit is zero or negative, goodwill of that reporting until shall be tested for impairment on an annual or interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances exist that indicate that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. An entity must assume that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, perform an additional test to determine whether goodwill has been impaired and calculate the amount of that impairment. The modifications to ASC Topic 350 resulting from the issuance of ASU 2010-28 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and interim periods within those years. The adoption of this standard did not impact the consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29 Business Combinations (Topic 805) Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations (ASU 2010-29). This standard update clarifies that, when presenting comparative financial statements, SEC registrants should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the current period business combinations had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The update also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. ASU 2010-29 is effective prospectively for material (either on an individual or aggregate basis) business combinations entered into in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements as there were no business combinations in the current period. 17 In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. ASU No. 2009-14 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 985-605 to exclude tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality. Entities that sell joint hardware and software products that meet this scope exception will be required to follow the guidance of ASU No. 2009-13. ASU No. 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. ASU No. 2009-13 amends guidance included within ASC Topic 605-25 to require an entity to use an estimated selling price when vendor specific objective evidence or acceptable third party evidence does not exist for any products or services included in a multiple element arrangement. The arrangement consideration should be allocated among the products and services based upon their relative selling prices, thus eliminating the use of the residual method of allocation. ASU No. 2009-13 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding significant judgments made and changes in applying this guidance. ASU No. 2009-13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted At March 31, 2011, there are no recently issued accounting standards that will have a material impact on the Company when adopted in a future period. Critical Accounting Policies In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, we disclose accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of our critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. 18 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.