Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are made as of the date of this filing and PAR assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Corporate Information PAR Technology Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiaries ParTech, Inc. (ParTech) and PAR Government Systems Corporation (PAR Government) operates in two distinct reporting segments, Restaurant/Retail and Government. Our Restaurant/Retail segment provides software, hardware, and services to the restaurant 2 Table of Contents and retail industries. Our Government segment provides technical expertise and development of advanced systems and software solutions for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community and other federal agencies. 2021 Highlights On April 8, 2021, we acquired Punchh Inc. (Punchh), a leader in software as a service (SaaS) customer loyalty and engagement solutions, launching our unified commerce cloud platform with Brink POS for front-of-house, Data Central for back-office, PAR Pay and PAR Payment Services for payments, and Punchh for customer loyalty and engagement. On September 17, 2021, we sold 982,143 shares of common stock to the public at a price of $56.00 per share. On September 17, 2021, we sold $265.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027. In September 2021, the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory Information Directorate awarded our Government segment a $490.4 million ceiling, single award, indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract (the IDIQ Contract) with cost-plus-fixed-fee completion and firm-fixed-price type orders for Counter-small Unmanned Aircraft System (C-sUAS) software, hardware, and technical documentation. The value of this contract is dependent on those amounts committed under the contract by government agencies, and as of December 31, 2021, $42.8 million was committed of which $5.8 million was funded, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date. See Government Segment Backlog for additional information on backlog of contracts for our Government segment. Restaurant/Retail Segment We are a leading provider of software, hardware, and services to the restaurant and retail industries, with more than 500 customers currently using our software products and more than 50,000 active restaurant locations. Our mission is to enable personalized experiences that connect people to the brands, meals, and moments they love. We provide enterprise restaurants, franchisees, and other restaurant outlets in the three major restaurant categories, quick service, fast casual, and table service, with operational efficiencies by offering them a fully integrated cloud solution. Our unified commerce cloud platform delivers a fully integrated suite of modern restaurant solutions that are extensible and built on open application programming interfaces (API) that retain flexibility and the market optionality of an open platform. More than 400 partners leverage our open platform to extend the reach and capabilities of their own solutions for the leading brands in our industry. Our unified commerce cloud platform delivers four key capabilities to ensure brand success: elevated guest engagement, end-to-end ordering and fulfillment, optimized planning and operations, and sophisticated analytics and insights. 3 Table of Contents Our unified data platform helps brands improve business performance by collecting insights across transactions and events. These advanced analytical capabilities span guest behaviors, operational metrics, channel performance and product mix, unlocking unique, real-time, end-to-end actionable insights. Purpose built for restaurants, our unified commerce cloud platform integrates our products and those of our integration partners, and delivers guest engagement, operations and powerful, comprehensive data and insights to our customers and partners under one portfolio. Point-of-Sale (POS) Software . Brink POS is an open cloud solution offering customers the opportunity to integrate with third-party products and in-house systems. In support of our customers need to quickly adapt to changing market conditions, we offer the largest integration ecosystem 250+ partners across various product solution categories including: mobile/online ordering, self-ordering kiosks, kitchen video systems, enterprise reporting, and other solutions relevant to our customers businesses, including Punchh, our cloud customer loyalty and engagement solution, and Data Central, our cloud back-office solution. These integration capabilities enable restaurants to increase customer visits and check size, improve operational efficiency, and most importantly, position them to win in an ever changing competitive market. As of December 31, 2021, Brink POS had an installed base of 15,897 restaurants, compared to a Brink POS installed base of 11,722 restaurants as of December 31, 2020. Loyalty and Engagement. Punchh is an enterprise-grade customer loyalty and engagement solution for restaurant and convenience store brands to build direct one-to-one customer relationships and to increase customer lifetime value and same-store sales. Punchh provides physical retailers comprehensive, AI-powered tools to deliver customer omnichannel loyalty experiences and campaigns to engage their customers, create real-time 360-degree insights and drive repeat purchases and higher average spend. The Punchh platform seamlessly integrates with customers existing systems. Back-office SaaS Software. Data Central, a cloud-based software solution of back-office applications, leverages business intelligence and automation technologies to decrease food costs, manage labor and improve overall customer service. Data Central provides restaurants with the necessary tools to achieve peak operational and financial efficiency; it serves as the central hub of restaurant intelligence by collecting information from POS, inventory, supply, payroll and accounting systems to provide a comprehensive view of a restaurants operations. Data Central integrates with Brink POS and third-party software products, and it is mobile-friendly, providing browser level access to all store level functions. PAR Pay and Payment Services. PAR Payment Services, our merchant services offering, provides restaurants with card payment processing capabilities, which we service and support. PAR Pay, is an EMV payments solution. Both PAR Payment Services and PAR Pay offer restaurants various choices including payment devices, gift card programs, and payment processors. Wireless Communications, Drive-Thru Systems. Our POS integrated solutions include a comprehensive offering of wireless headsets for drive-thru order-taking. This product offering provides our customers with another means to deliver their products and serve their customers. POS Hardware. Our POS platforms are designed to reliably operate in harsh environments associated with food service. PAR platforms - the PAR Infinity TM , PAR Phase TM , PAR Helix TM and the EverServ 8000 series - terminals, are durable and highly functioning, scalable, and easily integrated, offering customers competitive performance at a cost-conscious price. Our hardware platforms are compatible with popular third-party operating systems, support a distributed processing environment and are suitable for a broad range of use and functions within the markets served. Our open architecture POS platforms are optimized to host our POS software applications, as well as many third-party POS software applications, and are compatible with a variety of peripheral devices. We partner with numerous vendors that offer in-store peripherals, such as cash drawers, card readers, printers, and kitchen video systems, allowing us to deliver a completely integrated solution. Services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of services to support our customers technology and hardware requirements, including training, installation, technical support and repair services. 4 Table of Contents We offer complete application training to our customers in-store staff and provide technical training to our customers information systems personnel. We provide customers with installation, technical and life-cycle support for our products through support services, licenses and/or subscription agreements. We also offer depot repair and overnightAdvanced Exchangeservices from our offices in San Diego, California, Mississauga, Ontario, and our corporate headquarters in New Hartford, New York. In North America, we offer 24-hour help desk support from our diagnostic service centers located in New Hartford, New York and Tampa, Florida, and on-site support through our field tech service network, which serves the continental United States. Outside of the continental U.S., we similarly support our products by providing call center, installation, on-site, and/or depot repair services directly or through authorized providers. Sales, Marketing and Delivery In North America, we market and sell our products through our dedicated sales teams and channel partners. Our international direct sales teams and channel partners market and sell our products and services to tier 1 customers outside of the U.S., as well as to local/regional customers from in-country offices. Our products are also offered and sold through sales representatives and resellers serving multi-unit operators, the independent restaurant category, and the non-food service markets such as retail and convenience stores, amusement parks, movie theaters, cruise lines, spas, and other ticketing and entertainment venues. We have developed and nurtured long-term relationships with several of the largest brands in the Restaurant/Retail segment, three of which represent a signification portion of our total revenues. We have been an approved provider of restaurant technology systems and related support services to McDonalds Corporation and their franchisees since 1980 and an approved supplier to Yum! Brands, Inc. since 1983. Competition Our software and hardware product offerings face competition in the highly competitive and rapidly evolving restaurant and retail markets. Most of our larger customers have several approved suppliers of software and/or hardware similar to one or more of our products. We compete in these markets directly with product offerings from Oracle Corporation, NCR Corporation and others. We compete on the basis of product delivery (cloud versus traditional on-premise software applications), existing and planned product design, features and functionality, software application and integration capabilities, quality and reliability, product development capabilities, price, and customer service. Our competitive advantages include: our unified commerce cloud platform, open solutions offerings, cloud delivery model based on modern architecture, enterprise grade solutions, purpose-built hardware, advanced development capabilities, extensive domain knowledge and expertise, excellent product reliability, a customer-dedicated direct sales force organization, and responsive customer service and support. As relevant technologies evolve and customer demands and expectations increase, so do the competitive pressures in the market, with new companies entering and existing companies expanding their product and service portfolios. We expect competition in the restaurant and retail markets to continue to increase, including competition from both cloud and traditional on-premise POS software, customer loyalty and engagement software, back-office software, hardware providers and other business software and solution providers. With many of our product and service offerings, we face competition from companies who have access to significantly more financial and technical resources than we possess. Research and Development Continuous product research, innovation, and product development are an integral part of our business. We continuously evaluate customer needs and new technologies to enable us to develop innovative and relevant products, in addition to creating enhancements to our unified commerce cloud platform and existing products that improve and/or add to their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilitiesfrom leveraging the latest innovations in cloud computing to wireless headsets and other devices to advances in internet performance. Research and development expenses were $34.6 million, $19.3 million, and $13.4 million, in 2021, 2020, and 2019 respectively. Manufacturing and Suppliers We assemble our ES 8000 series platforms internally in the U.S. We source other hardware products and related materials, product assemblies, and components from third parties. We purchase most of the materials, 5 Table of Contents product sub-assemblies and full assemblies from several suppliers, we do, however, rely on sole sources for certain of our assembly components and hardware products. We periodically review and evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations in the event one or more of our suppliers should fail to perform. See Risk Factors for a discussion on risks related to our supply chain operations. Government Segment PARs Government segment provides technical expertise and development of advanced systems and software solutions for the DoD, the intelligence community and other federal agencies. Additionally, we provide support services for satellite command and control, communication, and IT systems at several DoD facilities worldwide. The Government segment has three principal offerings: Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) solutions, mission systems operations and maintenance, and licensed software products for use in analytic and operational environments that leverage geospatial intelligence data. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance PAR Governments ISR group provides a variety of intelligence analysis, systems integration, and situational awareness solutions. Our core competencies reside in mobile geospatial applications; counter, small, unmanned aircraft surveillance systems, or C-sUAS; and data science offerings. Our substantive, in-depth expertise in these domains enables us to provide government customers and industry partners with key technologies that support a variety of applications ranging from strategic enterprise systems to tactical in-the-field dismounted users. Additionally, we provide integration, testing and operational readiness support in line with these competencies. The ISR group also provides systems engineering support and software-based solutions to the DoD research and development laboratories, intelligence customers, and operational commands. Our internal expertise ranges from theoretical and experimental studies to development and fielding of operational capabilities. Our team members are: experienced developers and subject-matter experts in the DoD full motion video; developers of geospatial and imagery data management, visualization, and exploitation solutions; designers and developers of very large-scale data science and multi-media analysis systems; leading the development of technologies to train and test artificial intelligence systems; designers of mobile computing applications for Android, iOS, and Windows; architects and integrators of advanced C-sUAS systems-of-systems; builders of solutions for privacy, compliance and governance for sensitive customer data; and developers of geospatial information system solutions. We are actively engaged in the development of applications that support the needs of mobile teams with real-time situational awareness and distributed communications. PAR Governments ISR group has a strong legacy in the advanced research, development, and productization of geospatial information assurance technology involving steganography, steganography analysis, digital watermarking, and digital media forensics. These enabling technologies are used to provide increased protection and security of geospatial data. PAR Governments ISR group integrates and tests a broad range of government and industry research and development solutions. Our team is expanding its scope through the development and implementation of counter, small unmanned aircraft surveillance systems, or UAS, technologies in support of force protection efforts. Additionally, we design, integrate, and operate antenna data collection solutions for experimentation, demonstration, and test support. We also provide technical engineering and analysis services to intelligence community customers, supporting development and deployment of advanced prototypes and quick reaction systems, including applications for high performance computing platforms (e.g., Cray exascale computers). Mission Systems PAR Governments mission systems (MS) group provides a wide range of technical and operational services to sustain mission critical components of the Department of Defense Information Network (the DoDIN). These services include continuous satellite and teleport facility operations and maintenance, engineering and installation services including inside and outside plant services, and maintenance of infrastructure and information systems for very low frequency, low frequency, high frequency, very high frequency and ground-based radio transmitter/receiver facilities, including high tower antennas up to 1200 feet. We operate and maintain satellite communications and teleport facilities with ultra-high frequency, super high frequency and extremely high frequency satellite communication earth terminals, and support telecommunications architectures such as fixed submarine 6 Table of Contents broadcast systems and high-frequency global communications systems. The DoD communications earth stations operated by PAR Government's MS group are the primary communications systems utilized by the national command authority and military services to exercise command and control of the nations air, land, and naval forces and to provide support to allied coalition forces. PAR Governments MS group supports globally-deployed operational forces by providing reliable 24/7/365 support services for a variety of satellite communication systems. We provide satellite control center operations and mission planning for DoD Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, or C4ISR, operations. We provide satellite ground system support, including operations and maintenance, sustainment, upgrades, communications security management, anomaly response/resolution, process improvement, emergency response and disaster recovery. Our experience also includes mission planning and operations training. PAR Governments MS group provides comprehensive, dependable, and secure information systems support services to the DoD and other federal agencies. These services include information technology infrastructure library based, tier 0 to 3 service desk operations for thousands of users, network system administration, database administration, information assurance/system security, information security training, and government network management. We also perform maintenance, monitoring, upgrades, planning, testing, and integration and configuration services, to include security systems including intrusion detection systems. The PAR Government MS group supports critical information systems which operate elements of the DoDIN to support the National Command Authority (President and Joint Chiefs of Staff), DoD, and other federal agencies. Our system troubleshooting and regulatory experts support the customer mission around the globe. Approximately 60% of our footprint is outside the continental U.S. with contracts in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories in the Pacific and Caribbean. PAR Governments MS group has strong and enduring relationships with a diverse set of customers throughout the DoD, intelligence community, and other federal agencies. Our track record of delivering mission critical services to government customers spans decades, and includes contracts continuing 20 years or more, with an average contract duration of three to five years. We work closely with our customers, with many of our mission system employees co-located at customer sites. Our strong relationships and on-site presence with our customers enables PAR Government to develop substantive customer and technical domain knowledge, translate mission understanding into exemplary program execution, and create continued demand for PAR Governments services. Products Division PAR Governments software product business draws on decades of research and development (R&D), image processing and geospatial information systems, or GIS, experience. Licensable products focus on serving analysts and operators who seek highly accurate and timely information with both temporal and geospatial context. Product utility spans the modern battlefield from rear echelon analyst cell to the field operations center to the mobile devices and displays carried by infantryman at the very forward edge of a battlespace. Currently we offer two types of software products. The geospatial visualization, or GV, image processing suite is used by the international defense and intelligence community to analyze still and video imagery. A second product line, Sit(X) , provides situational awareness solutions used by government and private organizations to manage rapid response teams or deployed field units. Customers include global geospatial software providers, NATO partners, public safety organizations, and the U.S. senior intelligence agencies. Marketing and Competition The PAR Government segment obtains contracts through a mix of competitive proposals and technical paper submissions in response to solicitations from government organizations and prime contractors. In addition, we often obtain contracts by submitting unsolicited proposals against publicly identified government requirements which are selected on merit for further development and funding. Although well positioned in our business areas, competition for government contracts is intense. Many of our competitors are large corporations that have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. Within our ISR portfolio we compete based on the technical talent and accomplishments of our development staff, software support and program management teams who have earned a reputation for rapid solutioning, leading edge software solutions and technical talent with high security clearance and the background and appetite to tackle truly difficult problems. In our MS contract portfolio, we also compete with many smaller, economically disadvantaged 7 Table of Contents companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential, set aside, treatment that target segments of the government contract market. Here the principal competitive factors are past performance, the ability to perform the statement of work, price, technological capabilities, management capabilities, and service. Many of our DoD customers are migrating to price sensitive, best value procurements while leveraging commercial software standards, applications, and solutions. Our strategy is to build upon PAR Government segment's sustained performance on existing service contracts, coupled with investments in enhanced business development capabilities. We believe we are well positioned to realize continued renewals of expiring contracts and extensions of existing contracts, and to secure service and solution contracts in expanded areas within the DoD and other federal agencies. We believe our highly relevant technical competencies, intellectual property, and investments in new technologies provide opportunities to offer systems integration, products, and highly-specialized service solutions to the DoD, intelligence community, and other federal agencies. The general uncertainty in U.S. defense total workforce policies (military, civilian, and contract), procurement cycles, and spending levels for the next several years are factors we monitor as we develop and implement our business strategy for our Government segment. Backlog The value of existing PAR Government contracts at December 31, 2021, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $195.3 million, of which $38.6 million was funded and includes $5.8 million related to the IDIQ Contract. The value of existing PAR Government contracts at December 31, 2020, net of amounts relating to work performed to that date, was approximately $150.5 million, of which $27.8 million was funded. Funded amounts represent those amounts committed under contract by government agencies and prime contractors. Of the December 31, 2021 PAR Government contract backlog of $195.3 million, approximately $87.0 million is expected to be completed in calendar year 2022. Intellectual Property and Other Rights A number of the Company's products and components are developed and designed based on our existing copyrighted work and/or patents issued or obtained through the acquisition of other businesses. Our other products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary information through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, and registered and common law trademarks, that protect our brand associations and symbolize our goodwill, as well as copyrights that relate to software and various distinctive characteristics of our products. We also rely on a combination of confidentiality and assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees and consultants, and enter into confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers and other third parties with whom we have strategic relationships. We believe our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets have value, and we believe our use and reliance on the intellectual property laws of the U.S. and foreign countries, as well as our agreements and licenses, protect and maintain our rights in our intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts unauthorized third parties may attempt to use, copy, or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property and/or our other proprietary information; moreover, the rapidly changing technology in the Restaurant/Retail segment and the Government segment makes our future success dependent on the development skills, innovative designs, and technological expertise of our employees and consultants, as well as strategic technology acquisitions, rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. Government Regulation Our operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to data protection and privacy, import and export controls, trade restrictions, anti-corruption and bribery, and employee and labor relations. Please see our disclosure in Risk Factors for more details regarding laws and regulations governing our business. Human Capital We prioritize finding, developing and rewarding extraordinary talent. Our employee-first strategy is a priority designed to provide a diverse, inclusive and safe environment where our 1,477 full-time employees and 64 part-time employees across the Company enjoy coming to work each day to support our customers and grow our business. 8 Table of Contents We value speed, ownership, focus and winning together, which we consider to be the foundation for how we operate and make decisions. Leadership's Role: Our senior management team is responsible for developing and executing our human capital strategy. We seek employees who share a passion for technology and its ability to improve our customers businesses. Our mission is to create an environment that reflects our values of speed, ownership, focus and winning together where our employees thrive. Our strategy is to hire the best talent, give them the responsibility and authority they deserve, and let them make the decisions on how to best execute. We design our employee compensation and benefits programs to be competitive, reinforce our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), and consistent with our values, to incentivize and reward outstanding performance. Our chief executive officer and chief human resources officer regularly update the compensation committee of our board of directors on key areas of our human capital strategy, including the following: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion : Our commitment to DEI is simple: its about community, belonging and fairness. Like our customers who bring people together through providing delicious and accessible food, we bring our employees together by providing a work environment that understands and integrates our employees' unique perspectives and voices. This is essential for cultivating a diverse, inclusive and equitable environment for all, and we are committed to scale our DEI efforts to reflect the communities where our employees live and our customers operate. Through evolving our culture, talent and corporate deliverables we aim to set an example that shows the impact of fostering a diverse and equitable environment and how that drives genuine employee experiences and innovation. We made significant investments in our DEI program in 2021 including appointing a DEI Lead, increasing employee resource group programming such as speaker series events for our Women in Technology enterprise resource group, and investing in our policies including expanded parental leave and offering infertility benefits. Our 2022 strategy includes continued investments in DEI through data management and collection, corporate goal setting as well as increased education and inclusion initiatives such as DEI training/workshops and creating a more diverse employee pipeline. Our goal is to have an infrastructure where our diverse employee population thrives. Our U.S. employee population consists of 27% ethnically diverse employees and 25% are women. Globally, our workforce consists of 26% women. 20% of our U.S. employee population is under the age of 30, with 50% between the ages of 30 and 50 and 30% over the age of 50. Globally, 24% of our employees are under the age of 30, with 50% between the ages of 30 and 50 and 26% over the age of 50. Employee Engagement and Talent Management/Development: Consistent with our employee-first strategy, we believe that our employees should have the opportunity to have a forum to communicate their feedback, concerns and suggestions. We conduct quarterly employee net promoter surveys and monthly engagement surveys. Understanding the pulse of our employees through engagement surveys is critical to inform our actions with respect to integrating areas of opportunity in our employee engagement, retention and total rewards programs. To support our meritocratic, pay-for-performance strategy, we execute annual performance reviews and bi-annual 360 performance reviews with the intent to incentivize and motivate our employees. Talent assessments enable us to identify individuals that are ready for promotion and areas of development across our core competencies. In 2021, we invested in building our talent management systems. Our 2022 plans include a first quarter launch of a robust talent development platform to dramatically increase our investment in the core competency development for all of our employees. Health and Safety: The health and safety of our employees in the workplace is of utmost importance to us. We regularly assess our facilities to ensure compliance with our health and safety guidelines and regulatory requirements. The importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy has been underscored by the novel coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19 or pandemic or COVID-19 pandemic ). Our operating policies are consistent with the guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect our employees and their families and we actively reassess evolving policies and COVID-19 trends which inform our policies and safe practices, including work-at-home policies, PPE requirements, limitation on visitors and our business-essential travel only policy. Talent Acquisition and Attrition : We are aggressively managing headwinds created by the Great Resignation or Big Quit that are being experienced throughout the U.S. economy. Our objective of retaining talent is rooted in our employee-first strategy and includes investments in employee engagement and experience, DEI, 9 Table of Contents talent management systems and talent development, which has contributed to our increased speed and volume of hiring to support our growth plans. We continue to make appropriate adjustments to ensure competitive compensation to attract and retain talent. We also implemented several benefit enhancements, including unlimited paid time off, adoption and infertility benefits, expanded parental leave and healthcare plan improvements. Our overall attrition rate in 2021 was 14%, and our attrition rate for who we consider top talent was 3.9%. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website at www.partech.com/ Investor Relations as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our reports filed or furnished with the SEC. The address of the SEC website is https://www.sec.gov. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those described below, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects and the market price of our common stock. Risks Associated with the COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and its impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic and the actions taken by governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals in response have resulted in weakened economic conditions, supply constraints and shortages, manufacturing disruptions and logistic challenges, and volatility in the financial markets, both in the United States and other countries. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition, and results of operations is dependent on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic, the severity of COVID-19 variants and the actions, especially those taken by governmental authorities, to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact , and the impact on the businesses of our customers, partners, and suppliers. Among the factors th at could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, are: mandated business closures, or voluntary store closures or reduced services due to lower customer/guest demand or labor shortages; decreased product adoptions and bookings by customers or potential customers because of reduced profits or investment capital; delayed or canceled store implementations due to limited or no store access; customer payment delays or defaults and bankruptcies; supply shortages and/or disruptions in product manufacturing and distribution channels, which could severely restrict our access to source materials or component parts when required, expanding the impact of the supply shortage and possibly resulting in longer lead times for delivery, which could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations; price increases for materials and component parts and shipping and transportation costs, which has caused, and may continue to result in increased prices of our products and services, which could make us less competitive, result in reduced sales, loss of potential new customers, and cause damage to our reputation and relationships with our current customers; and operational challenges due to actions taken by us to support and protect our employees health and safety, including limiting employee travel, limiting access to facilities and offices, implementing remote work and flexible work policies, and implementing policies responsive to government vaccine, masking and/or testing mandates. Remote employee work arrangements pose challenges for our employees and our IT systems, and stresses our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including cybersecurity and IT systems management risks, and impair our ability to manage our business and execute our strategies. Additionally, our business is dependent on attracting and retaining highly skilled employees, and our ability 10 Table of Contents to attract and retain such employees may be adversely impacted by limited access to our facilities/offices, our travel restrictions, or our policies responsive to government mandates, which could result in increased competition for skilled talent, and could adversely impact our ability to deliver our products and services to our customers. Further, the worldwide uncertainty, volatility, and economic disruption created by the COVID-19 pandemic, could exacerbate other risk factors that we identify in this Annual Report, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Operation of our Business We have incurred losses in each of the last several years, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses in each of the last several years, including for the year ended December 31, 2021, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in our Restaurant/Retail segment by, among other things, making substantial investments to grow the Company through the acquisition of other businesses and enhancing our products and services through research and development. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving or sustaining profitability in the future. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable, investors could lose their investment. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to the timing of our recognition of SaaS revenues. We may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our SaaS offerings and our traditional on-premise software and hardware sales. SaaS revenues are generally recognized ratably over the life of the subscriptions. In contrast, revenue from our on-premise software and hardware sales is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery. Accordingly, the SaaS delivery model creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition not associated with our traditional on-premise software delivery model and hardware sales. A portion of our SaaS revenue results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during prior reporting periods. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future reporting periods. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our SaaS delivery model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. Our products might experience coding or configuration errors, which could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from purchasing our products. Although we test our products and product updates prior to their release and throughout their intended life, our cloud-based and on-premise software and hardware products sometimes contain coding or configuration errors that can negatively impact their functionality, performance, operation, and integration capabilities. Coding and configuration errors can expose us to product liability, performance issues, warranty claims, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our technical and maintenance support services are not satisfactory to our customers, they may not renew their services agreements or buy future products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to provide technical and maintenance support services that are responsive, satisfy our customers expectations, and timely resolve issues that they encounter with our products or if there is a perception that we do not maintain high quality technical and maintenance support, then our customers may not purchase additional products or services from us in the future, negatively affecting our revenues, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Three customers account for a significant portion of our revenues in the Restaurant/Retail segment. The loss of one of these customers, or a significant reduction, delay, or cancellation of purchases by one of these customers, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Revenues from our Restaurant/Retail segment constituted 74.4% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. Aggregate sales to our three largest customers (which include sales to those three customers respective franchisees) constituted consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 of 30.0%. Significant reductions, delays, or cancellation of orders by one of these customers, or the loss of one of these customers, would reduce our revenue and operating income and would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There are risks related to our enterprise resource planning system. We continue to integrate components onto our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system which is intended to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial condition and results operations. Delays in fully integrating our ERP system can result in operational inefficiencies, including management and staff time to manage, coordinate, and execute unintegrated components, increased costs and can impair our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial condition and operating results, which in turn would negatively impact our competitive position and customer relationships and harm our business. Issues with product and component availability or supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our suppliers to deliver hardware and related materials, product assemblies, and components in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with contract terms and applicable laws and regulations. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers for certain of our assembly components and hardware products, which may subject us to other significant risks, including higher prices, reduced control over inventory delivery schedules, or inadequate inventory. While we have entered into long-term or volume purchase agreements with some suppliers, have increased safety stock inventory and the use of alternative sources when possible, and have taken other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components, and products, we cannot be sure that hardware and related materials, product assemblies or components will be available or in the needed quantities and quality or at favorable or competitive prices. If we experience a material supplier problem it could lead to a shortage of supplies and extended lead times for delivery, which could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations. This could result in reduced sales, breach or termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations COVID-19 pandemic-related issues have created trade and shipping disruptions and port congestion, resulting in increased transportation costs for our hardware and related materials, product assemblies, and components. We continue to experience price increases for materials and component parts; while we have been able to obtain cost reductions and avoid unfavorable changes to terms with some of our suppliers, this is not the case with all of our suppliers, and we may not be successful in maintaining favorable terms or securing favorable terms from other suppliers in the future. To offset increased costs, we have and may in the future increase the prices of our products. These price increases could make us less competitive, result in reduced sales, loss of potential new customers, and cause damage to our reputation and relationships with our current customers, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our information technology systems or those of our service providers could be subject to cyber-attacks or other security incidents, which could result in operational disruptions, costly governmental investigations or litigation and other adverse consequences that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have established practices, policies and procedures intended to protect our systems and information against cyber-attacks. We invest in the development and enhancement of our controls designed to prevent, detect, respond, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, and other events that could have a security impact. We also conduct security awareness trainings on at least an annual basis for our employees to educate them on how to identify and alert management to phishing emails, spoofed, or manipulated electronic 12 Table of Contents communications, and other critical security threats. We also provide regular security bulletins to our employees, and we have policies and procedures in place designed to prevent cybersecurity attacks or identify threatened attacks. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will ultimately prevent or mitigate the impact of a cyber-attack on our systems or information. Our systems have and could in the future become subject to cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, dedicated denial of services attacks, malware, social engineering, and other means used to obtain unauthorized access to or disrupt the operation of our systems. We also rely on service providers, and we cannot guarantee that our service providers systems have not been breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities that could result in a security incident, or other disruption to, our or our service providers systems. Our ability to monitor the security measures that our service providers have implemented is limited, and, in any event, malicious third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures. Even though prior incidents did not have a material adverse effect on our systems and operations, there can be no assurance that the same will be the case in the future. In particular, the shift to widespread remote working conditions increases the opportunities available to cybersecurity criminals, and, as such, the risk of a cyber-attack potentially occurring is increased. A failure or interruption of our systems or those of our service providers could result in operational disruptions, costly governmental investigations or litigation, unauthorized access, or misappropriation of information, interruption of systems availability or denial of access to and misuse of applications or information required by our customers to conduct their businesses. The occurrence of any such incidents may harm our relationship with our customers and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on public cloud providers and a network infrastructure managed by third parties to deliver our cloud software solutions, and any interruptions or delays in their services could harm our business. We rely on public cloud providers and a network infrastructure managed by third parties to deliver our cloud software solutions. Our ability to deliver our cloud software solutions in a timely and reliable manner to our customers depends on the protection of the information we store with these public cloud providers, as well as the maintenance of the network infrastructure. Any interruptions or delays in the services provided by these public cloud providers or third-party network infrastructure, whether caused by natural disasters or malicious actors, may result in substantial service disruptions, which could damage our reputation with potential and existing customers, cause us to lose existing customers, expose us to liability, or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment to deliver our cloud software solutions or taking other actions to mitigate any prolonged service disruptions. Any such alternatives could be more difficult or costly to replace than what we currently license, and integration of the alternatives into our network could require significant work and resources and delays. A portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which are subject to a periodic impairment analysis. A significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. Our goodwill was approximately $457.3 million at December 31, 2021 and our intangibles were $118.8 million at December 31, 2021. Identifiable intangible assets are primarily a result of business acquisitions and internally developed capitalized software. We test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate possible impairment. We describe the impairment testing process and results of this testing more thoroughly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Our estimates are subject to uncertainties. If we determine an impairment has occurred at any point in time, we will be required to reduce goodwill or identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Additional information about our impairment testing is contained in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report). If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Competition for highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. In 2021, the labor market in the U.S. experienced a significant increase in workers leaving their positions, otherwise known as the Great Resignation or the Big Quit, which has made the market to replace these individuals increasingly competitive and has resulted in 13 Table of Contents significant wage inflation in response to labor shortages. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, particularly senior management and technical personnel, we may not be able to keep up with the needs of our customers and our Restaurant/Retail segment and our reputation may be harmed. Moreover, many positions in our Government business require security clearances, which can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain, resulting in increased competition for such uniquely qualified individuals. We may be subject to claims by third-parties of intellectual property and/or proprietary rights infringement. Third parties may assert claims that our software, systems or technology infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate their intellectual property or other proprietary rights. Third parties may also assert that our sale of certain products require the payment of license fees to them. Such claims may be made by our competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties, including existing licensors. The risk of claims may increase as the number of software products that we offer, and competitors in our market increase and product technology and discovery overlaps occur. For example, in September 2020, we were notified by one of our business partners of a claim for non-payment of royalties due under an existing license agreement. We do not believe that this claim has any merit, but we allocated resources to resolve this claim. Any such claims, regardless of merit, resulting in litigation could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays in introducing new or enhanced services or technology and materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded, and as a result any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Growth of our Business Acquisitions are an element of our growth strategy, which subject us to risks commonly associated with acquisitions of other business. A component of our growth strategy is to continue to expand through acquisitions that we believe add complementary companies, products, and technologies. Accordingly, we may be subject to risks that are commonly associated with the acquisition of other businesses, including: the failure to identify or successfully negotiate suitable future acquisitions; the failure to obtain financing on satisfactory terms; difficulties in obtaining required regulatory or stakeholder approvals; the inability to effectively translate our strategies into revenue; unforeseen costs or cost estimates that exceed our expectations in connection with integration of the acquired business; the failure to retain and assimilate acquired business employees; difficulties coordinating and managing geographically separate organizations; the inability to retain existing customers and suppliers on terms similar to, or better than, those in place with the acquired business; the inadequacy of our integration plans; difficulties entering geographic markets or new market segments in which we have no or limited experience; and failure to maintain our financial and internal controls and systems as we expand our operations. If we fail to realize anticipated benefits or synergies of the businesses we acquire, such as cost-savings and earnings accretion, or if we decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions or incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business acquired, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face extensive competition in our markets, and our failure to compete effectively could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products and services. The markets for our software and hardware products are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, evolving industry practices, disruptive technology 14 Table of Contents developments, and frequent new product introductions. While we think our software and hardware products offer competitive, innovative features and functionality, any one of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect sales to our existing customers, as well as our ability to attract and sell to new customers. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, quickly respond to customer requirements, and rapidly and effectively introduce new and innovative products, features, and functions. If we fail in these efforts, our business, results of operations, and financial conditions could suffer. Any delay in the development, marketing, or launch of new products or enhancements to our existing products, or failure to meet our customers requirements could result in reduced sales, performance penalties, or termination of contracts, and could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings, or stock price and weakening our competitive position. Our Government segment has been focused on niche offerings reflecting its expertise, primarily in the areas of ISR, systems engineering and evaluation, satellite and telecommunications services, and management technology/systems services. Many of our competitors in the Government segment are larger and have substantially greater financial resources and broader capabilities in management technology. Our Government segment also competes with smaller companies, many of which are designated by the government for preferential set aside treatment, that target particular segments of the government market and may have superior capabilities in a particular segment. These companies may be better positioned to obtain contracts through competitive proposals. Consequently, there are no assurances we will continue to win government contracts as a prime contractor or subcontractor, and our failure to do so would reduce our revenue and operating income and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Associated with our Convertible Senior Notes and Future Indebtedness We may not have sufficient cash flow from our operating subsidiaries to pay our debt, which may seriously harm our business. As of December 31, 2021, we had $398.8 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 4.500% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes), 2.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes), and the 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes, and together with the 2024 Notes and 2026 Notes, the Senior Notes). Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance the Senior Notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, geopolitical, and other factors that may be beyond our control. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt under the Senior Notes, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives to secure cash flow, such as selling assets or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to raise funds through debt or equity issuances and otherwise access the credit and capital markets at the times and in the amounts needed and on acceptable terms will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes. Our indebtedness under the Senior Notes, could, among other consequences: increase the impact of adverse changes in the U.S. and global markets - generally, and in our industries, on our business, financial condition and operating results; restrict or limit our agility to plan and react to changes in our business and our industries; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund acquisitions, for working capital, and for other general corporate purposes. A conversion of the Senior Notes, or a fundamental change under the Senior Notes, if triggered, may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the Senior Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Senior Notes in cash. Furthermore, upon conversion of any Senior Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle the conversion (excluding cash in lieu of delivering fractional shares of our common stock), we must make cash payments in respect of the Senior Notes. Even if holders do not elect to 15 Table of Contents convert their Senior Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Senior Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Any of the cash payments described above could be significant, and if we fail to repurchase the Senior Notes when required or deliver the consideration due upon conversion, we will be in default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes. In such an event of default, holders of the Senior Notes with the defaulted indebtedness could elect to declare all principal, together with accrued and unpaid interest, due and payable, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Regulation of our Business A failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In connection with our services and products, we may collect, process, transmit, and/or store (on our systems and those of service providers) customer transactional data, as well as their and our customers and employees personally identifiable information and/or other data and information. Personally identifiable information is subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions with regard to privacy and data security, including the California Consumer Privacy Act and the New York SHIELD Act, which provide for fines and potential liability to consumers. Likewise, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, imposes obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data. Moreover, what constitutes personally identifiable information and what other data and/or information is subject to the privacy laws varies by jurisdiction and continues to evolve, and the laws that do reference data privacy continue to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations and additional efforts to ensure that our policies and procedures are updated to reflect changes in these laws and regulations are expensive and require significant resources. The lack of clarity and regulatory guidance on some issues further increases the cost of compliance. For example, Brexit, which took effect in January 2020, will lead to further legislative changes and reduced clarity as to whether data transfer to the United Kingdom will remain lawful in the long term, which may require us to expend additional resources to ensure that we are compliance with new rules or legislation. Our inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, or other legal obligations could damage our reputation, discourage current and/or potential customers from using our products and services, and result in fines, governmental investigations and/or enforcement actions, complaints by private individuals, and/or the payment of penalties to consumers, any one or all of which could have a material and adverse effect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, impair our ability to report accurate and timely financial information and have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As discussed in Part II, Item 9A.