Item 2 : Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statement This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements in this document that do not describe historical facts are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this document (including forward-looking statements regarding the continued health of the Hospitality industry, future information technology outsourcing opportunities, changes in contract funding by the U.S. Government, the impact of current world events on our results of operations, the effects of inflation on our margins, and the effects of interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations) are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "will," or "expect", we are making forward-looking statements. We believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable based on information available to us on the date hereof, but we cannot provide assurances that these assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct or that we will take any action that we presently may be planning. We have disclosed certain important factors that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from our current expectations, including a decline in the volume of purchases made by one or a group of our major customers; risks in technology development and commercialization; risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, and in the quick-service sector of the hospitality market specifically; risks associated with government contracts; risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures; and risks related to foreign operations. Forward-looking statements made in connection with this report are necessarily qualified by these factors. We are not undertaking to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements if we obtain new information or upon the occurrence of future events or otherwise. Overview PAR's technology solutions for the Hospitality segment feature software, hardware and support services tailored for the needs of restaurants, hotels, resorts and spas, casinos, cruise lines, movie theatres, theme parks and retailers. The Company's Government segment provides technical expertise to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and other federal agencies serving Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) needs in geospatial intelligence, geographic information systems, and command and control applications; additionally, this segment provides mission critical telecommunications, satellite command and control, and information technology operations and maintenance services worldwide to the U.S. DoD. The Company's products sold in the Hospitality segment are utilized in a wide range of applications by thousands of customers. The Company faces competition across all of its markets within the Hospitality segment, competing on the basis of product design, features and functionality, quality and reliability, price, customer service, and delivery capability. PAR's continuing strategy is to provide complete integrated technology solutions with industry leading customer service in the markets in which it participates. The Company conducts its research and development efforts to create innovative technology offerings that meet and exceed customer requirements and also have a high probability for broader market appeal and success. 14 Table of Contents The Company is focused on expanding its Hospitality businesses through its product investments and continued development of its cloud based software applications. These products include its Brink POS software, with integrated features that include loyalty at its core, mobile online ordering, kitchen video system, guest surveys, enterprise reporting, mobile dashboard, and much more. In addition, the Company is investing in the enhancement of existing software applications and the development of the Company's SureCheck solution for food safety and task management applications. PARs strategy is also focused on the continued feature expansion and deployment of ATRIO, its cloud-based software for the Hotel/Resort/Spa markets. To support growth of these products, the Company continues to expand its direct sales force and third-party distribution channels. The Quick Serve Restaurant (QSR) market, PAR's primary market, continues to perform well for the majority of large, international companies. However, the Company has seen certain market conditions impact smaller specific QSR organizations, whose business is slowing due to the continued lack of consumer confidence in those regions. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's estimates, specifically the fair value of its assets related to its legacy products. The Company continues to assess the alignment of its product and service offerings to support improved operational efficiency and profitability going forward. The focus of the Companys Government business is to expand its services and solutions business lines. Through outstanding performance of existing contracts and investing in enhancing its business development capabilities, the Company is able to consistently win contracts renewals, extend existing contracts, and secure additional new business. With its intellectual property and investment in new technologies, the Company provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies with highly-specialized expertise, systems integration, and products. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 PAR reported revenues of $59.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of 5.5% from the $56.5 million reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. PAR reported a net loss of $385,000 or $0.02 loss per share for the first quarter of 2015 versus a net loss of $989,000 or $0.06 loss per share for the same period in 2014. Product revenues were $21.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, an increase of 16.6% from the $18.6 million recorded for the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues generated from PARs tier one accounts. In addition, sales made through the Companys worldwide dealer network and software licenses increased 19% and 27%, respectively, on a year over year basis. 15 Table of Contents Service revenues were $14.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, a decrease of 1.0% from the $14.3 million reported for the same period in 2014. The decrease is mostly the result of a decline in field service revenue as certain customers transitioned to alternative service support delivery models. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in software related services due to an increase in software sold as a service and professional services performed during the quarter. In addition, there was an increase in revenue from our time and material related repair contracts. Contract revenues were $23.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, compared to $23.7 million reported for the same period in 2014, an increase of 1.0%. This increase is mostly driven by increased activity within the Companys Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance contracts, predominantly Eagle Intel-X. The increases were offset with a decrease in revenue from certain fixed price technical services contracts that were completed in 2014. Product margins for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 were 31.6%, an increase from 30.6% for the same period in 2014. Product margin was favorably impacted by the increase in software sales and lower overhead costs, partially offset by an unfavorable hardware mix during the quarter. Service margins were 33.9% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015; an increase from the 33.0% recorded for the same period in 2014. Service margins have been favorably impacted by an increase in software related services during the period, including professional services and software sold as a service revenues, generated by sales of our hospitality technology software platforms. Contract margins were 5.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, compared to 6.9% for the same period in 2014. This variance is the result of an unfavorable contract mix. In addition, during fiscal year 2014, the Company realized significant margin on certain fixed price technical services contracts that were modified during that year. The most significant components of contract costs in 2015 and 2014 were labor and fringe benefits. For the first quarter of 2015, labor and fringe benefits were $9.1 million or 41% of contract costs compared to $10.0 million or 45% of contract costs for the same period in 2014. This decrease in percentage is mostly attributable to the higher amount of subcontract revenue associated with the Company's Eagle Intel-X contract in 2015. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $9.1 million for the period ending March 31, 2015, a decrease of 2.1%, compared to the $9.3 million for the period ending March 31, 2014. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower equity based compensation expense and the Companys execution of cost reduction initiatives within its Hospitality operations. The Company continues to monitor its cost structure, including strategic initiatives to reduce its fixed costs. 16 Table of Contents Research and development (R&D) expenses were $4.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, up from the $3.9 million recorded for the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily due to an increase in hardware R&D associated with next generation hardware products, as well as an increase in software R&D associated with the Companys Brink software application. During the quarter ended March 31, 2015, the Company recorded $249,000 of amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets from the acquisition of Brink Software. The Company did not record any amortization expense associated with acquired identifiable intangible assets for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. Other expense, net, was $229,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 compared to other expenses of $78,000 for the same period in 2014. Other income/expense primarily includes, fair market value fluctuations of the Company's deferred compensation plan, rental income, and foreign currency fair value adjustments. The increased expense in 2015 is primarily due to foreign currency adjustments and lower rental income. Interest expense represents interest charged on the Company's short-term borrowings and from long-term debt. Interest expense was $86,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $17,000 for the same period in 2014. This increase is associated with higher outstanding borrowing in 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company's effective income tax benefit was 60.9%, compared to 18.2% for the same period in 2014. The variances from the federal statutory rate for 2015 and 2014 were due to the mix of projected taxable income from the Company's domestic and foreign jurisdictions expected for full year fiscal 2015 and 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's primary sources of liquidity have been cash flow from operations and its bank line of credit. Cash generated in operating activities of continuing operations was $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $1.9 million for the same period in 2014. In 2015, cash generated from operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in deferred revenue based on timing of billings for the Companys service contracts and customer deposits associated with the Companys Hospitality segment. This was partially offset by decreases in accrued expenses and accounts payable from timing of payments made to vendors, specifically inventory purchases. In 2014, cash generated in operations was mostly due to the add back of non-cash charges and changes in working capital requirements, primarily associated with increases in deferred revenue based on timing of billings for the Companys service contracts offset by increases in accounts receivable based on timing of product sales and contract billings. 17 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities was $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 versus $1.6 million for the same period in 2014. In 2015, capital expenditures of $303,000 were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $622,000 and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. In 2014, capital expenditures of $591,000 were primarily for capital improvements made to the Companys leased properties as well as purchases of computer equipment associated with the Companys software support service offerings. Capitalized software was $994,000 and was associated with investments for various Hospitality software platforms. Cash used in financing activities was $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 versus cash used of $53,000 in 2014. In 2015, the Company decreased borrowings on its credit facility by $3.8 million and its long-term debt by $43,000. In 2014, the Company decreased its long-term debt by $55,000 offset by proceeds from stock awards of $2,000. Through June 4, 2014, the Company maintained a credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit (with the option to increase to $30.0 million), which expired in June 2014. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. This credit facility was secured by certain assets of the Company. On June 5, 2014, the Company executed an amendment to its then existing credit facility to provide for the renewal of the facility through June 2017, with terms generally consistent to those of its prior facility. This facility provided the Company with capital of up to $20.0 million (with the option to increase to $30.0 million) in the form of a revolving line of credit. This agreement allowed the Company, at its option, to borrow funds at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread or at the bank's prime lending rate. On September 9, 2014, the Company terminated its existing credit facilities with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. and NBT Bank, N.A. (on behalf of itself and as successor by merger to Alliance Bank, N.A.) consisting of $20.0 million in working capital lines of credit, and the Company and its domestic subsidiaries entered into a new three-year credit facility with J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A. The terms of the new agreement provide for up to $25 million of a line of credit, with borrowing availability based on a percentage of value of various assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The new agreement bears interest at the applicable bank rate (3.25% at March 31, 2015) plus applicable interest rate spread up to 0.25% or, at the Company's option, at the LIBOR rate plus the applicable interest rate spread (range of 1.5% 2.0%). At March 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding balance of approximately $1.2 million on this line of credit at a rate of 3.50%. The weighted average interest rate paid by the Company was approximately 3.50% during fiscal year 2015. The new agreement contains traditional asset based loan covenants and includes covenants regarding earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) and a fixed charge coverage ratio, and provides for acceleration upon the occurrence of customary events of defaults. 18 Table of Contents On March 19, 2015, the Company amended its existing credit facility to reduce the EBITDA requirement and extend the fixed charge coverage ratio. The amendment provides the Company flexibility to continue investing in the Companys future product offerings while maintaining certain covenant thresholds as defined in the amendment. The Company is in compliance with the credit facility covenants as of March 31, 2015. In addition to the credit facility described above, the Company has a mortgage loan, collateralized by certain real estate. This mortgage matures on November 1, 2019. The Company's fixed interest rate was 4.05% through October 1, 2014. Beginning on October 1, 2014, the fixed rate was converted to a new rate equal to the then-current five year fixed advanced rate charged by the New York Federal Home Loan bank, plus 225 basis points. Effective November 1, 2014, the Company entered into an agreement that fixed the interest rate at 4.00% through the maturity date of the loan. The annual mortgage payment including interest through November 1, 2019 totals $206,000. In connection with the acquisition of Brink Software on September 18, 2014, the Company recorded indebtedness to the former owners of Brink under the stock purchase agreement. At March 31, 2015, the principal balance of the note payable was $5.0 million and it had a carrying value of $4.8 million. The initial carrying value was based on the notes estimated fair value at the time of acquisition with the difference being accreted to interest expense. Repayment terms are $3.0 million payable on the first anniversary of close, September 18, 2015, and $2.0 million payable on the second anniversary of close, September 18, 2016. During fiscal year 2015, the Company anticipates that its capital requirements will not exceed approximately $1.0 million to $3.0 million. The Company commits to purchasing inventory from its suppliers based on a combination of internal forecasts and actual orders from customers. This process, along with good relations with suppliers, minimizes the working capital investment required by the Company. Although the Company lists two major customers, McDonald's and Yum! Brands, it sells to hundreds of individual franchisees of these corporations, each of which is individually responsible for its own debts. These broadly made sales substantially reduce the impact on the Company's liquidity if one individual franchisee reduces the volume of its purchases from the Company in a given year. The Company, based on internal forecasts, believes its existing cash, line of credit facilities and its anticipated operating cash flow, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements through the next twelve months. However, the Company may be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. The Company's future capital requirements will depend on many factors including its rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, potential growth through strategic acquisition, expansion of sales and marketing, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, and market acceptance of its products. The Company cannot assure additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company's sources of liquidity beyond twelve months, in management's opinion, will be its cash balances on hand at that time, funds provided by operations, funds available through its lines of credit and the long-term credit facilities that it can arrange. 19 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs, which amends existing guidance to require the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with debt discounts, instead of a deferred charge asset. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to accounting for the fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement, which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as an acquisition of a software license. If not considered a software license, the arrangement should be accounted for as a service contract. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to disclosures around going concern, including management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures when conditions or events raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2017, with early adoption permitted. The impact of adopting this guidance on January 1, 2017 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amended guidance on the accounting for certain share-based employee compensation awards. The amended guidance requires that share-based employee compensation awards with terms of a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award and compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved. The Company is required to adopt this guidance for its annual and interim periods beginning March 1, 2016. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The amendments are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers. In April 2015, the FASB voted to propose a one-year deferral of the effective date of the new revenue standard. Under the proposal, the new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2018. The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. PAR is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on PAR's financial statements. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the FASB issued guidance that raises the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operations. The new guidance defines a discontinued operation as a disposal of a component or group of components that is disposed of or is classified as held for sale and represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. The new guidance was effective on January 1, 2015, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this amendment on January 1, 2015 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company disclosed accounting policies, referred to as critical accounting policies, that require management to use significant judgment or that require significant estimates. Management regularly reviews the selection and application of the Companys critical accounting policies. There have been no updates to the critical accounting policies contained in PARs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.